
GUIDE TO STATE LAWS RELATING TO LIBRARY SERVICES FOR 
BLIND AND PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS

National Library Service for the 
Blind and Physically Handicapped
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

September, 2009


Alabama

Region:	South

Agency:	Alabama Institute for Deaf and Blind, Dept. of Adult Blind and Deaf

Citation(s):	Section 21-1-15

Heading(s):	Department of Adult Blind and Deaf established; appropriations; operation 
of library service

Link(s):	http://www.legislature.state.al.us/CodeofAlabama/1975/21-1-15.htm
		
Print:		Code of Alabama, 1975.  St. Paul, MN : West Group, 1977-

Summary:
Section 21-1-15 establishes the Dept. of Adult Blind and Deaf (Adult Dept.), provides for 
its funding, and directs it to operate a library service for the blind, visually handicapped, 
and others; designates the Adult Dept. the official agency to operate such a regional 
library.
 
Text:
Section 21-1-15
Department of adult blind and deaf established; appropriations; operation of library 
service.
There shall be at the Alabama Institute for Deaf and Blind a separate department of adult 
blind and deaf. Legislative appropriations for the department shall be made separate and 
apart from the legislative appropriations made for the support and operation of the 
institute. The department shall have authority to establish and to operate a library service 
for blind, visually handicapped, deaf or severely handicapped persons, and the 
department is hereby designated as the official agency to operate a regional library for the 
blind, visually handicapped, deaf and severely handicapped.


Alaska

Region:	West

Agency:	Dept. of Education and Early Development, State Library

Citation(s):	Sec. 14.56.030, Alaska Statutes

Heading(s):	State Library duties

Link(s):	http://www.legis.state.ak.us/default.htm

Print:	West’s Alaska statutes annotated.  [St. Paul, Minn.] : Thomson/West, 
c2007-

Summary:  
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Alaska Statutes. The Dept. of Education and 
Early Development, through the State Library, is charged with providing services to 
public libraries to supplement or improve their services; directly providing library 
services in places with population or revenue insufficient to support local library service; 
and producing and distributing recorded election pamphlets for blind voters.]

Text:
Sec. 14.56.030. State library duties.
The department shall undertake state library functions that will benefit the state and its 
citizens, including
(1) coordinating library services of the state with other educational services and agencies 
to increase effectiveness and eliminate duplication;
(2) providing reference library service to state and other public officials;
(3) providing library services and administering state and other grants-in-aid to public 
libraries to supplement and improve their services, the grants to be paid from funds 
appropriated for that purpose, or from other funds available for that purpose;
(4) providing library service directly to areas in which there is not sufficient population or 
local revenue to support independent library units;
(5) distributing financial aid to public libraries for extension of library service to 
surrounding areas and to improve inadequate local library service under regulations 
adopted by the department;
(6) offering consultant service on library matters to state and municipal libraries, 
community libraries, school libraries, and libraries in unincorporated communities;
(7) serving as a depository for state and federal publications concerning Alaska;
(8) applying for, receiving, and spending, in accordance with AS 37.07 (the Executive 
Budget Act), federal, state, or private funds available for library purposes;
(9) recording and distributing the election pamphlet provided for by AS 15.58 to libraries 
throughout the state for use by blind voters;
(10) establishing and charging fees for reproduction, printing, and handling costs, for 
mailing and distributing state publications and research data, and for other services 
authorized by this chapter;
(11) operating and maintaining the Alaska State Archives under AS 40.21.


American Samoa
 
Region:	West

Agency:	Feleti Barstow Public Library (Territorial Library)

Citation(s):	17.0302

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of the Feleti Barstow Public Library

Link(s):	http://asbar.org/Newcode/Title%2017%20Library.htm#a302

Print:		American Samoa code annotated. Pago Pago, American Samoa : 		
		Legislative Reference Bureau, [2004]-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the American Samoa Code Annotated.  Section 
17.0302 directs the Feleti Barstow Public Library serve as a center for life-long learning, 
meeting the needs of various groups of citizens, and to make available books and other 
materials and services plus the facilities and equipment to use the books and materials.  
The library's current 5-year plan does explicitly mention the library's mission to meet the 
needs of visually impaired and handicapped citizens.]

Text:
17.0302  Powers and duties of the Feleti Barstow Public Library.
The Feleti Barstow Public Library:
(a) may sue and be sued;
(b) may adopt and use a seal;
(c) may make contracts, as authorized in this chapter;
(d) may adopt, amend, and repeal bylaws;
(e) may purchase or lease and hold personal property it considers necessary or convenient 
in the transaction of its business, may dispose of personal property held by it in 
accordance consistent with the laws of the government;
(f) may, in the name of the government, purchase, lease, or sell real estate, and accept 
title to that real estate in the name of the government, to accomplish the purposes of this 
chapter;
(g) may procure or contract for the procurement of supplies, equipment, materials, 
personal services other than by employees, and construction with any public or private 
entity upon terms and conditions as it finds necessary to the full and convenient exercise 
of its purposes and powers, subject to all applicable laws and rules of American Samoa, 
and shall receive and account for its inventory of materials;
(h) shall serve a center for life-long learning, dedicated to meeting the needs of all age 
groups, unskilled, skilled, and professional workers, students, preschoolers, business, 
government, elected officials, throughout the Territory;
(i) shall make available books, periodicals, government publications, audiovisual, video-
conferencing, internet, and other educational and cultural materials and provide the 
physical facilities and equipment to use these materials and services;
(j) shall serve the informational needs of the general public, department of education staff 
and the staffs of other departments; and educational, community, businesses and cultural 
organizations;
(k) shall maintain a collection of Samoan and other Pacific Islands resources and 
cooperate with regional libraries and agencies of the Pacific in matters of mutual concern 
and benefit to the Pacific basin, including the South Pacific Commission, Pacific Forum, 
Nelson Memorial Library of Samoa, Universities of Guam, Hawaii and Fiji and Pacific 
resources for education and learning;
(l) shall encourage life long education, instruct users of the library on the efficient and 
effective use of library resources and provide information services for social, economic 
and political development in American Samoa;
(m) shall be responsible for developing and receiving private and government grants and 
contributions of money or property which the library may use for or in aid of any of its 
purposes;
(n) shall establish fair and reasonable charges for copy services, late book fees, rental of 
conference rooms with and without video equipment, sale of surplus books and other 
surplus materials and other income producing activities;
(o) may adopt other rules pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act, 4.1001 et seq., 
not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or with the rules of the government, 
that are necessary and proper for the administration and operation of the public library; 
and
(p) shall exercise all other powers not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or 
with the rules of the government, which may be reasonably necessary or incidental to the 
establishment, maintenance and operation of the public library.


Arizona

Region:	West

Agency:	Legislative Dept., Arizona State Library, Archives and Public Records

Citation(s):	41-1331

Heading(s):	Arizona state library, archives and public records

Link(s)
http://www.azleg.state.az.us/FormatDocument.asp?inDoc=/ars/41/01331.htm&Title=41&DocType=ARS

Print:		Arizona revised statutes, annotated.  St. Paul, Minn. : West Group, [1956-

Summary:
Establishes the State Library; authorizes the Library to acquire materials in particular 
subject areas; and lists several services that the Library must provide, including services 
and materials for people with visual or physical disabilities that render them unable to use 
traditional print materials.

Text:
41-1331. Arizona state library, archives and public records
A. The Arizona state library, archives and public records is established in the legislative 
branch of state government.
B. The state library shall:
1. Acquire and provide access to materials relating to the following in print, in an 
electronic format or in any other format:
(a) Law.
(b) Political science.
(c) Economics.
(d) Sociology.
(e) Subjects pertaining to the theory and practice of government.
(f) Genealogy.
(g) Arizona history.

2. Provide the following:
(a) A general and legal reference service.
(b) A records management and archives program.
(c) A state and federal government documents depository program.
(d) A library development service.
(e) Museums for educational purposes as approved by the board.
(f) A service, including materials, for persons who are visually or physically unable to 
use traditional print materials.


Arkansas

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. of Education, Arkansas State Library

Citation(s):	13-2-207 2(C)

Heading(s):	Powers and duties generally

Link(s):	http://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/assembly/ArkansasCode/11/13-2-207.htm

Print:	Arkansas code of 1987, annotated.  Official ed.  Charlottesville, Va. : 
LexisNexis, 1987-

Summary:
Authorizes the acquisition of library materials, directs the Library to provide services to 
blind and physically handicapped individuals, in cooperation with the National Library 
Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped of the Library of Congress.

Text:
13-2-207.  Powers and duties generally.
Within the limitations of facilities and funds provided for the Arkansas State Library, the 
library shall:
(1) Acquire books and other library materials by purchase, exchange, gift, grant, or 
donation and catalog and maintain those books and materials and make them available 
for reference and research use of the public and the public officials and employees of this 
state and its political subdivisions under such rules and regulations established by the 
State Library Board as may be reasonably necessary to govern the use and preservation 
thereof;
(2) (A) Establish and maintain a collection of books and library materials of and 
pertaining to Arkansas and its people, resources, and history and maintain the collection 
as a separate section within the library; 
(B) Operate and maintain a collection of multimedia materials to complement book 
collections and establish reasonable rules and regulations for their use and preservation; 
and 
(C) Provide specialized services to the blind and individuals with physical disabilities 
under a cooperative plan with the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically 
Handicapped of the Library of Congress;
(3) Assist communities, libraries, schools, colleges, universities, study and civic clubs 
and groups, charitable and penal institutions, state agencies and departments, county and 
municipal governments, and any other institutions, agencies, and individuals with books, 
information, library materials, and services as needed;
(4) Direct the establishment and development of county and regional library systems and 
programs, devise and implement a certification plan for public librarians, and assist in the 
design and building of public library facilities;
(5) Conduct courses of library instruction, hold library institutes in various parts of the 
state, and encourage the recruitment and training of library personnel in any suitable 
manner;
(6) Cooperate with the Department of Education and the Department of Higher Education 
in devising plans for the development of libraries, in aiding librarians in their 
administration, in certification policies, and in formulating rules and regulations for the 
use of libraries;
(7) Receive gifts of library materials, money, and real and personal property, to be held in 
trust, subject to the terms of the donation for the purposes of this subchapter;
(8) Be the official state library agency designated to administer state and federal 
programs of aid to libraries and to undertake such other activities and services as will 
further statewide development of libraries and library systems through interlibrary, 
interagency, and interstate cooperation in order to secure efficient and effective library 
service for all Arkansans;
(9) (A) Cooperate with the various officers, departments, and agencies of state 
government in pooling and sharing library materials and programs so that duplication of 
services and facilities shall be minimized and so that maximum utilization may be made 
of the library services and resources of this state. 
(B) In furtherance of subdivision (9)(A) of this section, the library may enter into 
contracts or agreements with state officers, departments, and agencies for the provision of 
special library services where needed and, under the terms of the contract or agreement, 
may provide for the method of financing special costs incurred by the library in 
furnishing and maintaining such special library services; and
(10) Perform all other functions and services that are common to the purposes and 
objectives of a state library. 


California

Region:	West

Agency:	State Dept. of Education, California State Library

Citation(s):	Education code, Section 19320-19328

Heading(s):	State library

Link(s):
http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/cgi-bin/displaycode?section=edc&group=19001-20000&file=19320-19328

Print:		West’s annotated California codes.  St. Paul, Minn. : West Group [1954-

Summary:
Section 19320 (i) authorizes the State Library to serve as regional library for the blind, in 
cooperation with the Library of Congress. Part (l) allows the Library to acquire and 
supply materials to supplement other public libraries in the state.  Section 19322 allows 
the Dept. of Education to contract with other agencies for library services, including 
agencies of the United States government.  Section 19323 specifically directs the State 
Librarian to loan tape recordings of books and other materials to legally blind persons 
and others with disabilities that prevent them from using conventional printed material.  
Section 19324 authorizes the State Librarian to duplicate braille book masters, other than 
textbook masters.

Text:
19320.  The State Librarian may do all of the following:
(a) Make rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of the State 
Library.
(b) Appoint assistants as necessary.
(c) Sell or exchange duplicate copies of books.
(d) Keep in order and repair the books and property in the library.
(e) Prescribe rules and regulations permitting persons other than Members of the 
Legislature and other state officers to have the use of books from the library.
(f) Collect and preserve statistics and other information pertaining to libraries, which 
shall be available to other libraries within the state applying for the information.
(g) Establish, in his or her discretion, deposit stations in various parts of  the state, under 
the control of an officer or employee of the State Library.  No book shall be kept 
permanently away from the main library, which may be required for official use.  Books 
and other library materials from public libraries of the state may be accepted for deposit, 
under agreements entered into by the State Librarian and the public libraries concerned, 
whereby materials that should be preserved but are rarely used in the region may be
stored and made available for use under the same conditions that apply to materials in the 
State Library.
(h) Collect, preserve, and disseminate information regarding the history of the state.
(i) Authorize the State Library to serve as regional library for the blind, in cooperation 
with the Library of Congress.
(j) Give advisory, consultative, and technical assistance with respect to public libraries to 
librarians and library authorities, and assist all other authorities, state and local, in 
assuming their full responsibility for library services.
(k) Authorize the State Library to serve as the central reference and research library for 
the departments of state government and maintain adequate legislative reference and 
research library services for the Legislature.
(l) Acquire, organize and supply books and other library informational and reference 
materials to supplement the collections of other public libraries of the state with the more 
technical, scientific and scholarly works, to the end that through an established 
interlibrary loan system, the people of the state shall have access to the full range of 
reference and informational materials.
(m) Make studies and surveys of public library needs and adopt rules and regulations for 
the allocation of federal funds to public libraries.
(n) Contract, at his or her discretion, with other public libraries in the state to give public 
services of the types referred to in subdivisions (g) and (l) of this section, when service 
by contract appears to be a needed supplement to the facilities and services carried on 
directly by the State Library.

19322.  The Department of Education may:
(a) Contract with counties, cities, or districts within this state, agencies of the state, and 
agencies of the United States government for the purpose of providing library services.
(b) Establish and operate library service centers.

19323.  The State Librarian shall make available on a loan basis to legally blind persons, 
or to persons with a disability that prevents them from reading conventional printed 
materials, in the state tape recordings of books and other related materials. The tape 
recordings shall be selected by the State Library on the same basis as the State
Library's general program for providing library materials to legally blind readers.

19324.  The State Librarian may duplicate any braille book master, other than textbook 
masters, presented by any legally blind person directly to the State Librarian for 
duplication.  The State Librarian may duplicate any braille book master, other than 
textbook masters, presented by any other person or agency directly to the State Librarian 
for duplication.




19325.  The State Librarian may provide the following:
(a) Toll-free telephone services for registered patrons of the federally designated regional 
libraries for the blind and physically handicapped, in order to enable those persons to 
have direct patron access to library services.
(b) Toll-free telephone access to telephonic reading systems for individuals with print 
disabilities who are registered patrons of the federally designated regional libraries for the 
blind and physically handicapped.




Colorado

Region:	West

Agency:	Colorado Dept. of Education, State Library

Citation(s):	24-90-105 

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of the state librarian

Link(s):	http://www.cde.state.co.us/cdelib/LibraryLaw/download/LibraryLawRev110805.pdf

Print:		Colorado revised statutes.  [Atlanta, Ga.?] : LexisNexis, [2003-

Summary:
Section 105 (e) directs the state librarian to provide or contract for the provision of 
library services to the blind and physically handicapped, including those who cannot use 
conventional printed materials.

Text:
24-90-105. Powers and duties of state librarian. 
(1) The state librarian has the following powers and duties with respect to the state 
library:
(a) (I) To make reasonable rules and regulations for the administration of the provisions 
of this part 1 and parts 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this article; for the use of state library materials; 
and for the purchase, control, and use of books and other resources;
(II) Rules or regulations promulgated under provisions of this part 1 shall be subject to 
sections 24-4-103 (8) (c) and (8) (d) and 24-4-108.
(b) To appoint all professional and clerical help in the state library, subject to the 
provisions of section 13 of article XII of the state constitution;
(c) To furnish or contract for the furnishing of library or information services to state 
officials and departments;
(d) To furnish or contract for the furnishing of library service to institutional libraries, 
and to make reasonable rules for the establishment, maintenance, and operation of 
institutional libraries; except that any such rules shall not conflict with any rules 
promulgated by the department of corrections;
(e) To furnish or contract for the furnishing of library services to persons who are blind 
and physically disabled, including persons who cannot use printed materials in their 
conventional format;
(f) To contract for the furnishing of library resources to ensure equal access to 
information for all Coloradans;
(g) To coordinate programs and activities of the regional library service systems, as 
provided by the rules of the regional library service system created in section 24-90-115;
(h) To provide for the collection, analysis, publication, and distribution of statistics and 
information relevant to the state library and to public, school, academic, and institutional 
libraries. Publications circulated in quantity outside the executive branch shall be issued 
in accordance with the provisions of section 24-1-136.
(i) To conduct or contract for research projects necessary to plan and evaluate the 
effectiveness of library programs in the state;
(j) To contract for the lending of books and other resources to publicly-supported 
libraries and institutions, including, without limitation, the Colorado resource center at 
the Denver public library and any other resource centers as may be designated;
(k) To report to the state board of education at such times and on such matters as the 
board may require;
(l) To accept gifts and bequests of money or property, and, subject to the terms of any gift 
or bequest and to applicable provisions of law, to hold in trust, invest, or sell any gift or 
bequest of money or property, and to use either the principal or interest or the proceeds of 
sale for programs or purposes specified in the gift or bequest as approved by the state 
board of education. The use of gifts and bequests shall be subject to audit by the state 
auditor or his designee. The principal of any gift or bequest and the interest received 
thereon from investment shall be available for use by the state library in addition to any 
funds appropriated by the general assembly. The acceptance of any gift or bequest under 
this paragraph (l) shall not commit the state to any expenditure of state funds.


Connecticut

Region:	North

Agency:	Dept. of Education, State Library Board

Citation(s):	11-1a (d)

Heading(s):	Programs of state-wide library service

Link(s):	http://www.cga.ct.gov/2009/pub/chap188.htm#Sec11-1a.htm

Print:	Connecticut general statutes annotated.  St. Paul : Thomson/West Group, 
[1960-

Summary:
Directs the State Library Board to create and maintain a library service for the blind and 
other persons with disabilities.

Text:
Sec. 11-1a. Programs of state-wide library service.
(a) The State Library Board may institute and conduct programs of state-wide library 
service which may include, but need not be limited to, (1) a cataloging and processing 
service to be available to libraries, (2) the creation and maintenance of current and 
retrospective union catalogs of books, union lists of serials and similar cooperative 
listings of library materials, (3) a program of coordinated acquisitions, storage and 
deposit of library materials, (4) the support and encouragement of the transfer, as loans or 
copies, of library materials between libraries and to nonresident library patrons, (5) the 
provision of suitable high-speed communications facilities, (6) the creation and 
maintenance of bibliographic and regional reference centers, (7) the provision of 
traveling collections of library materials and of book examination centers, and (8) the 
provision of a publicity and public relations service for libraries.
(b) The State Library Board shall create and maintain one or more library research 
centers which shall utilize any appropriate sources of information, both within and 
outside of the state, to meet the needs of those making inquiries.
(c) The State Library Board shall maintain the state's principal law library which shall be 
located in the State Library and Supreme Court Building. The State Library Board shall 
distribute state documents, statutes and public acts to the law libraries established 
pursuant to section 11-10b.
(d) The State Library Board shall create and maintain a library service for the blind and 
other persons with disabilities, as provided for in 2 USC Sections 135a, 135a-1 and 135b. 


Delaware

Region:	North

Agency:	Dept. of State, Division of Libraries

Citation(s):	Title 29, Chapter 87 (sec. 8731)

Heading(s):	Division of Libraries

Link(s):	http://delcode.delaware.gov/title29/c087/sc01/index.shtml#8731

Print:		West’s Delaware code annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : West Group, [c2006-

Summary:
Section 8731 lists the duties of the Division of Libraries including coordinating library 
services with the counties to make sure every citizen has free and equal access to 
services.  Subsection 9 specifically directs the Division to provide accessible services for 
disabled individuals and to serve as the Delaware Regional Library of the Library of 
Congress Network of Libraries for the Blind and Physically Handicapped.

Text:
§ 8731. Division of Libraries. 
(a) In addition to any other power granted or duties imposed under this title, the Division 
of Libraries shall exercise general direction and control over the furnishing of library 
services within this State. The Director of the Division shall be the State Librarian, who 
shall be a graduate of a school accredited by the American Library Association. The 
Division of Libraries shall have the following functions and duties: 
(1) To provide information, resource materials and library services to state agencies, state 
and local governmental units and their subdivisions and, in the Department's discretion, 
to organizations in need of library services; 
(2) To coordinate library services of the several counties in order to assure to every 
Delaware citizen free and equal access to services, resources and guidance in the use of 
such for continuing self-educational, political, cultural, economic, recreational and 
intellectual enrichment; 
(3) To receive, accept, administer and expend any money, materials or other aid granted, 
appropriated or otherwise provided by local, state or federal governments, or by any 
source, public or private, in accordance with the terms thereof, and for the purposes 
provided hereinafter; 
(4) To foster the recruitment, development and maximum utilization of library personnel 
throughout the State;
(5) To encourage broad community participation in library development, program 
planning and the implementation of such plans;
(6) To establish and promote cooperation among all types of libraries at all service levels;
(7) To ensure the State's compatibility to and reciprocity within a national information 
resources network;
(8) To provide access to a complete collection of current documents published by state 
government and a comprehensive collection of current local, state and federal documents 
of interest to the State; 
(9) To coordinate the provision of accessible library and information services for 
individuals with disabilities and to serve as the Delaware Regional Library for the 
Library of Congress Network of Libraries for the Blind and Physically Handicapped; 
(10) To stimulate every Delaware citizen to fully utilize the State's cultural resource 
materials and to maintain the individual's right of access to those materials; 
(11) To offer resources which supplement and reinforce local libraries;
(12) To collect, compile, research, publish and disseminate information, including 
statistics, affecting the efficient operation of the State's library system; 
(13) To recommend legislation to achieve meaningful statewide library development and 
use;
(14) To establish, interpret and administer standards of effective library services;
(15) To enter into contracts and agreements to provide or to obtain library services and 
materials; and
(16) To perform all other activities pertinent to the organizational function of library 
services.
(b) Every state agency shall provide and deposit with the Department sufficient copies of 
all publications issued by such agencies for the purpose of making accessible to Delaware 
and other citizens resource materials published at the expense of the State. The 
Administrator of Libraries shall recommend the number of copies required for deposit, 
consistent with state interests. From time to time listing of such documents received 
under the terms of this section shall be published. 


District of Columbia

Region:	South

Agency:	District of Columbia Public Library, Adaptive Services Division

Citation(s):	DC ST 39-101

Heading(s):	Public library established; Mayor authorized to accept gifts

Link(s):
http://www.michie.com/dc/lpext.dll/dccode/21c92/238e6/238ea/238ed/238f1/23900?

Print:		District of Columbia official code. 2001 ed. [St. Paul, Minn.] : West 	
		Group, c2001-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the District of Columbia Code.  Section 39-101 
establishes the public library and states that the library will make available books and 
other materials to all citizens.]

Text:
39-101. Public library established; Mayor authorized to accept gifts.   
A free public library is hereby established and shall be maintained in the District of 
Columbia which shall be the property of the said District and a supplement of the public 
educational system of said District. Said library shall consist of a central library and such 
number of branch libraries so located and so supported as to furnish books and other 
printed matter and information service convenient to the homes and offices of all 
residents of the said District. All actions relating to such library, or for the recovery of 
any penalties lawfully established in relation thereto, shall be brought in the name of the 
District of Columbia; and the Mayor of said District is further authorized to receive, as 
component parts of said library, collections of books and other publications that may be 
transferred to him.


Florida

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. of Education, Division of Blind Services

Citation(s):	413.011 (3)(h) and (3)(t)

Heading(s):	Division structure and duties

Link(s):	http://dbs.myflorida.com/laws/413.php

Print:		West’s Florida statutes annotated.  St. Paul, Minn. : West Group, 1943-

Summary:
Part (h) directs the Division to cooperate with the Library of Congress to provide library 
services for blind persons and those with print-related disabilities.  Part (t) expands the 
directive about cooperation to public or private agencies, particularly naming the 
National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped and the Division of 
Library and Information Services of the Dept. of State; the persons to be served include 
those with visual, physical, or reading disabilities.

Text:
413.011  Division of Blind Services, legislative policy, intent; internal organizational 
structure and powers; Rehabilitation Council for the Blind.—  …
(3)  DIVISION STRUCTURE AND DUTIES.--The internal organizational structure of 
the Division of Blind Services shall be designed for the purpose of ensuring the greatest 
possible efficiency and effectiveness of services to the blind and to be consistent with 
chapter 20. The Division of Blind Services shall plan, supervise, and carry out the 
following activities:
(a)  Recommend personnel as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
(b)  Develop and implement a state plan for vocational rehabilitation services for 
individuals who are blind, pursuant to s. 101 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as 
amended.
(c)  In conjunction with the Florida Independent Living Council, develop and implement 
a 3-year state plan for independent living services and provide independent living 
services for blind and visually impaired individuals, including services for older 
individuals who are blind, pursuant to Title VII, chapter 2 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973, as amended.
(d)  Provide services that contribute to the maintenance of or the increased independence 
of older individuals who are blind.
(e)  Establish, equip, and maintain an orientation and adjustment center or centers to 
provide independent living skills training and other training such as, but not limited to, 
instruction in braille; use of the long white cane for independent travel; homemaking and 
home-management skills; and communication skills, including the use of computer 
technology, to prepare individuals who are blind or visually impaired for eventual 
vocational training, job placement, and independence.
(f)  Establish and implement a small business enterprises program and serve as the state 
licensing agency for individuals who are blind, pursuant to the federal Randolph-
Sheppard Act.
(g)  Purchase and distribute specialized equipment, devices, and technology, including 
low-vision aids, obtained directly from specialty vendors without using state centralized 
purchasing procedures.
(h)  In cooperation with the Library of Congress, provide library services to persons who 
are blind and persons who have other print-related disabilities.
(i)  In cooperation with other appropriate agencies, provide to employers, the state 
education agency, and local education agencies technical assistance in the provision of 
auxiliary aids and services to people who are blind, students, and their parents in 
complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, as amended.
(j)  Provide technical assistance to agencies within the state in order to assure that 
information technology purchased or used by such agencies is accessible to and usable by 
individuals who are blind, at the time the technology is purchased or used.
(k)  Participate, through the designation of the director or an appropriate staff member of 
the division, on boards, commissions, or bodies in this state for the purpose of 
coordinating and planning services.
(l)  Adopt rules for administering the programs of the division.
(m)  Apply for and receive money from any state or federal agency to support the 
programs of the division.
(n)  Develop and administer any other program that will further the provision of services 
to people who are blind and that the division determines falls within its scope of 
responsibility.
(o)  Inquire into the cause of blindness, inaugurate preventive measures, and provide for 
the examination and treatment of the blind, or those threatened with blindness, for the 
benefit of such persons, and shall pay therefore, including necessary incidental expenses.
(p)  Aid the blind in finding employment, teach them trades and occupations within their 
capacities, assist them in disposing of products made by them in home industries, assist 
them in obtaining funds for establishing enterprises where federal funds reimburse the 
state, and do such things as will contribute to the efficiency of self-support of the blind.
(q)  Establish one or more training schools and workshops for the employment of suitable 
blind persons; make expenditures of funds for such purposes; receive moneys from sales 
of commodities involved in such activities and from such funds make payments of wages, 
repairs, insurance premiums, and replacements of equipment. All of the activities 
provided for in this section may be carried on in cooperation with private workshops for 
the blind, except that all tools and equipment furnished by the division shall remain the 
property of the state.
(r)  Provide special services and benefits for the blind for developing their social life 
through community activities and recreational facilities.
(s)  Undertake such other activities as may ameliorate the condition of blind citizens of 
this state.
(t)  Cooperate with other agencies, public or private, especially the National Library 
Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped of the Library of Congress and the 
Division of Library and Information Services of the Department of State, to provide 
library service to persons with visual, physical, or reading disabilities as defined in 
federal law and regulations in carrying out any or all of the provisions of this law.
(u)  Recommend contracts and agreements with federal, state, county, municipal and 
private corporations, and individuals.
(v)  Receive moneys or properties by gift or bequest from any person, firm, corporation, 
or organization for any of the purposes herein set out, but without authority to bind the 
state to any expenditure or policy except such as may be specifically authorized by law. 
All such moneys or properties so received by gift or bequest as herein authorized may be 
disbursed and expended by the division upon its own warrant for any of the purposes 
herein set forth, and such moneys or properties shall not constitute or be considered a part 
of any legislative appropriation made by the state for the purpose of carrying out the 
provisions of this law.
(w)  Prepare and make available to the blind, in braille and on electronic recording 
equipment, Florida Statutes chapters 20, 120, 121, and 413, in their entirety.
(x)  Adopt by rule:
1.  Procedures for providing vocational rehabilitation services for the blind; and
2.  Instructions to be used by the division in its general administration.



Georgia

Region:	South

Agency:	Georgia Public Library Service

Citation(s):	20-2-305 (Title 20, Chapter 2, Article 6, Part 14)

Heading(s):	County and regional libraries

Link(s):	http://www.lexis-nexis.com/hottopics/gacode/default.asp

Print:	Official code of Georgia annotated.  Charlottesville, Va. : LexisNexis, 
1982-

Summary:
Subsection (b) directs the Board of Regents to provide staff, materials, etc. to have 
special media equipment available to meet the library needs of  the state’s blind and 
disabled persons.

Text:
§ 20-2-305.  County and regional libraries 
(a) The board of regents shall annually determine and request of the General Assembly 
the amount of funds needed for county and regional public libraries. This request shall 
include, but not be limited to, funds to provide library books and materials, salaries and 
travel for professional librarians, capital outlay for public library construction, and 
maintenance and operation. The amount for library books and materials shall be not less 
than 35 cent(s) per person. Funds for the purpose of paying the salaries of librarians 
allotted shall be in accordance with regulations established by the state board and the 
state minimum salary schedule for certificated professional personnel. Public library 
funds shall be apportioned to county and regional public libraries in proportion to the area 
and population to be served by such libraries in accordance with regulations and 
minimum public library requirements prescribed by the state board. All such funds shall 
be distributed directly to the regional or county library boards.
(b) The board of regents shall make adequate provisions for staff, supplies, services, and 
facilities to operate and maintain special media equipment to meet the library needs of the 
blind and disabled citizens of this state.
(c) The board of regents shall provide the staff, materials, equipment, and supplies to 
provide a book-lending and information service to all county and regional public libraries 
in the state and to coordinate interlibrary cooperation and interchange of materials and 
information among all types of libraries.
(d) The board of regents is authorized as the sole agency to receive federal funds allotted 
to this state for public libraries.
(e) The board of regents shall adopt policies and regulations to implement this Code 
section.
(f) As used in this Code section, the term "board of regents" means the Board of Regents 
of the University System of Georgia. 



Guam

Region:	West

Agency:	Guam Public Library, N.M. Flores Memorial Library

Citation(s):	80103

Heading(s):	Use

Link(s):	http://www.justice.gov.gu/CompilerofLaws/GCA/05gca/5gc080.pdf

Print:		Guam code annotated. Agana, Guam : Guam Law Revision Commission, 	
		[1980-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Guam Code Annotated.  Section 80103 states 
that all of the libraries within the library system will be available to all persons in Guam 
in accordance with regulations established by the Library Board.]

Text:
§ 80103. Use.
All the libraries in the Library System shall be available for use by all persons in Guam in 
accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Board. However, the Board 
shall have the authority to impose fines for lost books, late return of books or other 
misuses of the library resources. The Board shall also have the authority to establish fees 
for other services provided by the library pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative 
Adjudication Law.


Hawaii

Region:	West
      
Agency:	Dept. of Education, State Librarian

Citation(s):	26-12

Heading(s):	Department of Education

Link(s):	
http://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol01_Ch0001-0042F/HRS0026/HRS_0026-0012.htm

Print:	West’s Hawaii revised statutes annotated.  [St. Paul, Minn.] : 
Thomson/West, c2008-

Summary:
The State Librarian will administer public library services and transcribing services for 
the blind, as directed by the Board of Education.

Text:
§26-12  Department of Education.
The department of education shall be headed by an executive board to be known as the 
board of education.
Under policies established by the board, the superintendent shall administer programs of 
education and public instruction throughout the State, including education at the 
preschool, primary, and secondary school levels, adult education, school library services, 
health education and instruction (not including dental health treatment transferred to the 
department of health), and such other programs as may be established by law.  The state 
librarian, under policies established by the board of education, shall be responsible for the 
administration of programs relating to public library services and transcribing services for 
the blind.
The functions and authority heretofore exercised by the department of education (except 
dental health treatment transferred to the department of health), library of Hawaii, Hawaii 
county library, Maui county library, and the transcribing services program of the bureau 
of sight conservation and work with the blind, as heretofore constituted are transferred to 
the public library system established by this chapter.
The management contract between the board of supervisors of the county of Kauai and 
the Kauai public library association shall be terminated at the earliest time after 
November 25, 1959, permissible under the terms of the contract and the provisions of this 
paragraph shall constitute notice of termination, and the functions and authority 
heretofore exercised by the Kauai county library as heretofore constituted and the Kauai 
public library association over the public libraries in the county of Kauai shall thereupon 
be transferred to the public library system established by this chapter.
The management contracts between the trustees of the library of Hawaii and the Friends 
of the Library of Hawaii, and between the library of Hawaii and the Hilo library and 
reading room association, shall be terminated at the earliest time after November 25, 
1959, permissible under the terms of the contracts, and the provisions of this paragraph 
shall constitute notice of termination.
Upon the termination of the contracts, the State or the counties shall not enter into any 
library management contracts with any private association; provided that in providing 
library services the board of education may enter into contracts approved by the governor 
for the use of lands, buildings, equipment, and facilities owned by any private 
association.
Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the board of education may establish, specify 
the membership number and quorum requirements for, appoint members to, and 
disestablish a commission in each county to be known as the library advisory 
commission, which shall in each case sit in an advisory capacity to the board of education 
on matters relating to public library services in their respective county. 


Idaho

Region:	West

Agency:	Commission for Libraries

Citation(s):	33-2503

Heading(s):	Board of Library Commissioners -- Powers and Duties

Link(s):	http://www.legislature.idaho.gov/idstat/Title33/T33CH25SECT33-2503.htm

Print:		West's Idaho code annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : Thomson/West, c2006-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Idaho Statutes.  33-2503 directs the 
Commission for Libraries to foster library services throughout the state to enable all 
citizen to have access to library resources and to accept federal or other funds to promote 
library services.]

Text:
33-2503. BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS -- POWERS AND DUTIES.
The board of library commissioners is designated as the policymaking body for the Idaho 
commission for libraries. The board of library commissioners shall have the following 
powers and duties:
(1) To foster and promote library service in the state of Idaho.
(2) To promulgate all rules and make policies as necessary for the proper conduct of its 
business.
(3) To receive donations of money, materials and other real and personal property, for the 
benefit of the Idaho commission for libraries. Title to donations in any form shall vest in 
the state of Idaho. Donations shall be held and controlled by the board of library 
commissioners.
(4) To promote and facilitate the establishment, use, and cooperation of libraries 
throughout the state so all Idahoans have access to the resources of those libraries.
(5) To support or deliver statewide library programs and services.
(6) To accept, receive, administer and expend, in accordance with the terms thereof, any 
moneys, materials or other aid granted, appropriated, or made available to Idaho by the 
United States, or any of its agencies, or by any other public or private source, for library 
purposes. The board of library commissioners is authorized to file any accounts required 
with reference to receiving and administering all such moneys, materials and other aid.
(7) To assist in the establishment of financing of a statewide program of cooperative 
library services, which may be in cooperation with any taxing unit, or public or private 
agency.
(8) To contract with other libraries or agencies, within or without the state of Idaho, to 
render library services to people of the state of Idaho. The board of library commissioners 
shall have authority to reasonably compensate other library units or agencies for the cost 
of the services provided by the other library unit or agency under any such contract. Such 
contracts and compensation shall be exempt from the provisions of chapter 57, title 67, 
Idaho Code.
 


Illinois

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Secretary of State, State Library

Citation(s):	15-320-2
		15-320-18
		15-323		

Heading(s):	Secretary of State is State Librarian
		Federal aid
		Accessible electronic information act

Link(s):
http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/ilcs/ilcs3.asp?ActID=200&ChapAct=15%26nbsp%3BILCS%26nbsp%3B3
20%2F&ChapterID=4&ChapterName=EXECUTIVE+OFFICERS&ActName=State+Library+Act%2E

http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/ilcs/ilcs3.asp?ActID=2588&ChapAct=15%26nbsp%3BILCS%26nbsp%3B
323%2F&ChapterID=4&ChapterName=EXECUTIVE+OFFICERS&ActName=Accessible+Electronic+Inf
ormation+Act%2E

Print:	West’s Smith-Hurd Illinois compiled statutes annotated.  St. Paul, Minn. : 
WestGroup, c1992-

Summary:
[Sections appearing below are cited as the authority for Illinois Administrative Code 
Section 3025, which includes rules for the Illinois State Library Talking Book and Braille 
Service.]  Authorizes the Secretary of State to make, amend, and enforce rules relating to 
library services and materials; directs the Secretary to cooperate with the U.S. 
Government with regard to library services, including such services for the physically 
handicapped; allows the Secretary to fund electronic access to time-sensitive materials 
for the blind and physically handicapped.

Text:
(15 ILCS 320/2) (from Ch. 128, par. 102) 
Sec. 2. Secretary of State is State Librarian. The Secretary of State shall be the State 
Librarian of the State Library, shall have the direction and control thereof, and shall 
appoint a Director of the State Library and such other subordinate officers, personnel, and 
other employees as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. He or she 
may make, amend, and enforce rules and regulations in relation to library services, 
materials, and resources. Any rule or regulation made or amended hereunder shall be 
filed with the Office of Secretary of State.  



(15 ILCS 320/18) (from Ch. 128, par. 118) 
Sec. 18. Federal aid. The Secretary of State and State Librarian is authorized and 
empowered to do all things necessary and proper to fully cooperate with the United States 
government in the administering of any Act heretofore, or hereafter enacted for the 
purpose of appropriation of funds for the payment of salaries, library materials, access to 
electronic resources, library supplies, equipment, the construction of library buildings, 
library services throughout the State, and for library services to the physically 
handicapped.  

(15 ILCS 323/1) 
Sec. 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the Accessible Electronic Information Act. 

(15 ILCS 323/5) 
Sec. 5. Legislative findings. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) Thousands of citizens in this State have disabilities (including blindness or visual 
impairment) that prevent them from using conventional print material.
(b) The State fulfills an important responsibility by providing books and magazines 
prepared in Braille, audio, and large-type formats made available to eligible blind and 
disabled persons.
(c) The technology, transcription methods, and means of distribution used for these 
materials are labor-intensive and cannot support rapid dissemination to individuals in 
rural and urban areas throughout the State.
(d) Lack of direct and prompt access to information included in newspapers, magazines, 
newsletters, schedules, announcements, and other time-sensitive materials limits 
educational opportunities, literacy, and full participation in society by blind and disabled 
persons. 

(15 ILCS 323/10) 
Sec. 10. Definitions. As used in this Act:
"Accessible electronic information service" means news and other timely information 
(including newspapers) provided to eligible individuals from a multi-state service center, 
using high-speed computers and telecommunications technology for interstate acquisition 
of content and rapid distribution in a form appropriate for use by such individuals.
"Blind and disabled persons" means those individuals who are eligible for library loan 
services through the Library of Congress and the State Library for the Blind and 
Physically Handicapped pursuant to 36 CFR 701.10(b).
"Director" means the State Librarian.
"Qualified entity" means an agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision of the State 
or a nonprofit organization that:
(1) provides interstate access for eligible persons to read daily newspapers by producing 
audio editions by computer; and 
(2) provides a means of program administration and reader registration on the Internet.  



(15 ILCS 323/15) 
Sec. 15. Accessible electronic information service program. The Director by rule shall 
develop and implement a program of grants to qualified entities for the provision of 
accessible electronic information service to blind and disabled persons throughout 
Illinois. The grants shall be funded through appropriations from the Accessible Electronic 
Information Service Fund established in Section 20. 

(15 ILCS 323/20) 
Sec. 20. Accessible Electronic Information Service Fund. 
(a) Before July 1 of each year, the Illinois Commerce Commission, in consultation with 
the Director, shall determine the amount of funding necessary to support the program 
described in Section 15 during the next fiscal year and shall certify that amount to the 
State Treasurer.
(b) Each month, the State Treasurer shall transfer 1/12th of the amount determined under 
subsection (a) from the Digital Divide Elimination Infrastructure Fund into the 
Accessible Electronic Information Service Fund, a special fund created in the State 
treasury that may be appropriated only for the purposes of this Act. If moneys in the 
Digital Divide Elimination Infrastructure Fund are insufficient to meet the transfer 
requirements of this subsection, the Illinois Commerce Commission shall direct the 
Illinois Telecommunications Access Corporation, or its successor, to remit the amount of 
any insufficiency to the Director for deposit into the Accessible Electronic Information 
Service Fund from surcharges collected by the Corporation, or its successor, under 
Section 13-703 of the Public Utilities Act.


Indiana

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Indiana Library and Historical Dept., State Library

Citation(s):	4-23-7.1-2
	
Heading(s):	Duties and functions
	
Link(s):	http://www.in.gov/legislative/ic/code/title4/ar23/ch7.1.html

Print:		West’s annotated Indiana code.  St. Paul, Minn. : West Group, c1978-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Indiana Code.  The State Library is directed 
to provide specialized library services not available through other libraries in the state; to 
meet the specialized library needs of citizens; and to supplement the resources of other 
libraries in the state.]

Text:
IC 4-23-7.1-2 
Duties and functions
Sec. 2. The state library is responsible for executing the policy of the state of Indiana:
(1) to develop and provide library service to state government, its branches, its 
departments and its officials and employees;
(2) to provide for the individual citizens of the state those specialized library services not 
generally appropriate, economical or available in other libraries of the state;
(3) to encourage and support the development of the library profession; and
(4) to strengthen services of all types of publicly and privately supported special, school, 
academic, and public libraries. 

IC 4-23-7.1-3 
Library materials; development and maintenance; purposes
Sec. 3. The state library shall maintain, develop, and service a collection of books, 
periodicals, newspapers, maps, manuscripts, audiovisual materials, and other library 
materials for the purpose of:
(1) meeting the informational, educational, and research needs of state government;
(2) preserving and making available for use, materials bearing on the history of the state;
(3) meeting the specialized library needs and interests of citizens of Indiana; and
(4) supplementing the reference and materials resources of the libraries of the state. 



Iowa

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Commission for the Blind	

Citation(s):	Title VI, Subchapter 1, Chapter 216B.3
		Title VI, Subchapter 1, Chapter 216B.4

Heading(s):	Commission duties
		Federal aid

Link(s):
http://search.legis.state.ia.us/nxt/gateway.dll/ic/2009code/1/7706/7707/7844/7847?

Print:		Iowa code annotated. St. Paul [Minn.] : West Group, 1949-

Summary:
Directs the Commission for the Blind to provide library services to persons who are blind 
and those with physical disabilities; provide or contract for audio services to allow access 
to time-sensitive materials such as newspapers and magazines; accept financial aid from 
the U.S. Government to provide library services to the blind and physically disabled.

Text:
216B.3  Commission duties.
The commission shall:
1. Prepare and maintain a complete register of the blind of the state which shall describe 
the condition, cause of blindness, ability to receive education and industrial training, and 
other facts the commission deems of value.
2. Assist in marketing of products of blind workers of the state.

3. Ameliorate the condition of the blind by promoting visits to them in their homes for 
the purpose of instruction and by other lawful methods as the commission deems
expedient.
4. Make inquiries concerning the causes of blindness to ascertain what portion of cases 
are preventable, and cooperate with the other organized agents of the state in the adoption 
and enforcement of proper preventive measures.
5. Provide for suitable vocational training if the commission deems it advisable and 
necessary.  The commission may establish workshops for the employment of the blind, 
paying suitable wages for work under the employment.  The commission may provide or 
pay for, during their training period, the temporary lodging and support of persons 
receiving vocational training.  The commission may use receipts or earnings that accrue 
from the operation of workshops as provided in this chapter, but a detailed statement of 
receipts or earnings and expenditures shall be made monthly to the director of the 
department of management.
6. Establish, manage, and control a special training, orientation, and adjustment center or 
centers for the blind.  Training in the centers shall be limited to persons who are sixteen 
years of age or older, and the department shall not provide or cause to be provided any 
academic education or training to children under the age of sixteen except that the 
commission may provide library services to these children.  The commission may 
provide for the maintenance, upkeep, repair, and alteration of the buildings and grounds 
designated as centers for the blind including the expenditure of funds appropriated for 
that purpose.  Nonresidents may be admitted to Iowa centers for the blind as space is 
available, upon terms determined by rule.
7. Establish and maintain offices for the department and commission.
8. Accept gifts, grants, devises, or bequests of real or personal property from any source 
for the use and purposes of the department.  Notwithstanding sections 8.33 and 12C.7, the 
interest accrued from moneys received under this section shall not revert to the general 
fund of the state.
9. Provide library services to persons who are blind and persons with physical 
disabilities.
10. Act as a bureau of information and industrial aid for the blind, such as assisting the 
blind in finding employment.
11. Be responsible for the budgetary and personnel decisions for the department and 
commission.
12. Manage and control the property, both real and personal, belonging to the 
department.  The commission shall, according to the schedule established in this 
subsection, when the price is reasonably competitive and the quality as intended, 
purchase soybean-based inks and plastic products with recycled content, including but 
not limited to plastic garbage can liners.  For purposes of this subsection, "recycled 
content" means that the content of the product contains a minimum of thirty percent 
postconsumer material. …

[lengthy section dealing with recycling, fuels, etc. to be used by commission omitted]

19. Plan, establish, administer, and promote a statewide program to provide audio news 
and information services to blind or visually impaired persons residing in this state.
a. The commission may enter into necessary contracts and arrangements with the national 
federation for the blind to provide for the delivery of newspapers over the telephone, 
furnished by the national federation for the blind.
b. The commission may enter into necessary contracts and arrangements with the Iowa 
radio reading information service for the blind and print handicapped to provide for the 
delivery of newspapers, magazines, and other printed materials over the radio, furnished 
by the Iowa radio reading information service for the blind and print handicapped.

216B.4  Federal aid.
The director may accept financial aid from the government of the United States for 
carrying out rehabilitation and physical restoration of the blind and for providing library, 
news, and information services to persons who are blind and persons with physical 
disabilities.
A contribution or grant shall not be accepted if a condition is attached to it for its use or 
administration other than that it be used for assistance to the blind.


Kansas

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	75-2534
		75-2537

Heading(s):	Kansas state library in Topeka; composition; services; chief officer; 	
		grants, gifts and donations of money
	
		State librarian; duties; assistants; employees

Link(s):		
http://www.kslegislature.org/legsrv-statutes/getStatuteFile.do?number=/75-2534.html
http://www.kslegislature.org/legsrv-statutes/getStatuteFile.do?number=/75-2537.html

Print:		Kansas statutes annotated. Topeka, Kan. : Office of the Revisor of 		
		Statutes; [sale and distribution by the Office of Secretary of State], 1964-

Summary:
75-2534 establishes the State Library and allows it to provide braille, talking books, and 
other media for blind citizens; authorizes the Library to contract with the Library of 
Congress or any regional library thereof to provide such services.  75-2537 specifies that 
the State Librarian has complete management of the State Library, including its services 
for the blind and physically handicapped.

Text:
75-2534.   Kansas state library in Topeka; composition; services; chief officer; grants, 
gifts and donations of money. 
(a) There shall be a state library which shall be designated as the Kansas state library 
which shall be located in Topeka. The state library shall consist of books, pamphlets, 
papers, pictures, maps, charts and documents of every description now belonging 
thereto, together with such others as may be acquired by gift, purchase, exchange or 
otherwise. 
(b) The state library shall provide library and informational services to the judicial, 
legislative and executive branches of the state government and the state library shall 
also provide extension services to all of the residents of the state. 
(c) For the benefit of blind readers of Kansas, the state library may make available 
books and other reading matter in Braille, talking books or any other medium of reading 
used by the blind. To this end, the state library is authorized to provide library services 
for the blind and other handicapped persons through contract, agreement or otherwise 
with the library of congress or any regional library thereof. 
(d) The chief officer of the state library shall be the state librarian. 
(e) The state librarian may apply for and receive public or private grants, gifts and 
donations of money for the state library. All moneys received for grants, gifts and 
donations shall be remitted to the state treasurer in accordance with the provisions of 
K.S.A. 75-4215, and amendments thereto. Upon receipt of each such remittance, the 
state treasurer shall deposit the entire amount in the state treasury to the credit of the 
state library fund. 

75-2537.   State librarian; duties; assistants; employees. 
The state librarian shall have the complete management of the state library, including all 
extension library services or reader services for the blind and other handicapped 
persons. The state librarian shall employ a director of reference and such other 
employees as are required to administer the laws providing for the state library and 
reference services. Except as otherwise provided by law, all employees of the state 
librarian shall be within the classified service under the Kansas civil service act. The 
state librarian may employ student assistants to perform research or other duties 
prescribed by the state librarian. Each student assistant shall be within the unclassified 
service under the Kansas civil service act. 



Kentucky

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. of Libraries and Archives
	
Citation(s):	Title XIV, Chapter 171, Section 145

Heading(s):	Authority to provide library services for qualified readers with disabilities

Link(s):	http://www.lrc.ky.gov/krs/171-00/145.pdf

Print: 		Baldwin’s Kentucky revised statutes annotated.  Certified ed.  [St. Paul, 	
		Minn.?] : Thomson West, 2006-

Summary:	
Authorizes the Dept. to provide library materials in braille or other formats; allows for 
cooperation with the Library of Congress or any of its regional libraries

Text:
171.145 Authority to provide library services for qualified readers with disabilities. 
For the benefit of qualified readers with disabilities of Kentucky, the Department for 
Libraries and Archives may make available books and other reading matter in Braille, 
talking books or any other medium of reading used by qualified readers with disabilities. 
To this end, the department is authorized to provide library services for qualified citizens 
with disabilities of the Commonwealth through contract, agreement or otherwise with the 
Library of Congress or any regional library thereof.


Louisiana

Region:	South

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	RS 25:16	

Heading(s):	Rendition of library services to blind persons

Link(s):	http://www.legis.state.la.us/lss/lss.asp?doc=84349

Print:		West’s Louisiana statutes annotated.  St. Paul, Minn. : West Group, 1951-

Summary:
Allows the State Library to cooperate with surrounding states to provide library services 
for blind persons.

Text:
§16.  Rendition of library services to blind persons 
The State Library of Louisiana may, with the approval of the federal government, enter 
into contractual agreements with surrounding states for library services to blind persons.  
Such agreements shall provide for the payment to the State Library of Louisiana of their 
proportionate share of the total cost of the service by the states receiving the service 
under the agreement.  The State Library of Louisiana shall receive and retain all funds 
received, to be used to help defray the cost of the service in the foreign state.  
 
 


Maine

Region:	North

Agency:	State Library
	
Citation(s):	Title 27, section 36
		Title 27, section 40

Heading(s):	Advice to local libraries; gifts; schools of library instruction
		Accessible electronic information services
	
Link(s):	http://www.mainelegislature.org/legis/statutes/27/title27sec36.html
		http://www.mainelegislature.org/legis/statutes/27/title27sec40.html

Print:		Maine revised statutes annotated, 1964. St. Paul. Minn. : Thomson/West, 	
		c1964-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Maine Revised Statutes.  Section 36 ends 
with the directive that the State Library should provide any library service it considers in 
the best interest of the citizens of the state.  Section 40 does make specific reference to 
blind, visually impaired, or disabled individuals and authorizes the State Library to 
provide accessible electronic information services for these citizens, particularly with 
regard to time-sensitive materials such as newspapers.]

Text:
§36. Advice to local libraries; gifts; schools of library instruction 
The Maine State Library shall give advice to all school, state, institutional and public 
libraries, and to all communities in the State that may propose to establish libraries, as to 
the best means of establishing and administering the libraries, selecting and cataloging 
books and other details of library management, and may send its employees to aid in 
organizing such libraries or assist in the improvement of those already established. The 
Maine State Library shall formulate and present to the Legislature a plan for statewide 
library development and the Maine State Library is designated as the agency for the 
administration of the plan and is granted the authority to administer the plan on behalf of 
the State. The Maine State Library may receive gifts of money, books or other property 
that may be used or held in trust for the purpose or purposes given. The Maine State 
Library may establish an endowment fund. Any funds, if given as an endowment, must 
be invested by the Treasurer of State according to the laws governing the investment of 
trust funds. The Maine State Library may publish lists and circulars of information and 
may cooperate with the libraries and commissions of other states in the publication of 
documents in order to secure the most economical administration of its work. The Maine 
State Library may conduct courses or schools of library instruction and hold librarians' 
institutes in various parts of the State, and cooperate with others in those schools or 
institutes. The Maine State Library shall perform such other library service as the Maine 
State Library may consider for the best interests of the citizens of the State. 

§40. Accessible electronic information services 
1. Definitions.  As used in this section, unless the context otherwise indicates, the 
following terms have the following meanings. 
A. "Accessible electronic information service" means news and other information, 
including but not limited to newspapers, provided to eligible individuals from a multistate 
service center using high-speed computers and telecommunications technology for 
interstate acquisition of content and rapid distribution in a form appropriate for use by 
such individuals.
B. "Eligible individuals" means blind, visually impaired or disabled individuals who are 
eligible for library loan services through the Library of Congress and the National 
Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped pursuant to 36 Code of Federal 
Regulations, Section 701.10(b).
C. "Qualified entity" means an agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the 
State or a nonprofit organization that: 
(1) Provides interstate access for eligible individuals to read daily newspapers through 
producing audio or Braille editions by computer; 
(2) Obtains electronic news text either over the Internet or through direct transfer 
arrangements made with participating news organizations; and 
(3) Provides a means of program administration and reader registration on the Internet. 
2. Provision of service.  The State Librarian may enter into an agreement with a qualified 
entity to provide an accessible electronic information service for eligible individuals. If 
an agreement is entered into, the State Librarian may make use of federal and other funds 
available for this purpose. 


Maryland

Region:	North

Agency:	State Dept. of Education, Division of Library Development and 		
		Services

Citation(s):	13A.05.04.05

Heading(s):	Special library services

Link(s):	http://www.dsd.state.md.us/comar/getfile.aspx?file=13a.05.04.05.htm

Print:		West's annotated code of Maryland. St. Paul, Minn. : Thomson/West, 	
		c2002-

Summary:
Directs the State Dept. of Education to provide library services for the blind and 
physically handicapped.  Notes that the State Library for the Physically Handicapped is 
administered by the Dept.'s Division of Library Development and Services.

Text:
.05 Special Library Services. 
The State Department of Education shall provide library services to the blind and 
physically disabled. The State Department of Education shall receive and utilize the 
resources of federal agencies in accordance with policies governing these resources. It 
shall coordinate library service to the blind and physically disabled with those of public 
libraries and other educational institutions so as to provide an effective Statewide 
program. The service is provided by the State Library for the Physically Handicapped 
administered by the Division of Library Development and Services. 




Massachusetts

Region:	North

Agency:	Board of Library Commissioners

Citation(s):	78.19
		78.19E

Heading(s):	Powers, duties and status of board
		Library media services; comprehensive statewide program; funds; 		
		standards 

Link(s):	http://www.mass.gov/legis/laws/mgl/78-19.htm
		http://www.mass.gov/legis/laws/mgl/78-19e.htm

Print:		General laws of Massachusetts. Official ed. Boston : Published in 		
		cooperation with the Massachusetts Bar Association by the General Court 	
		; [Rochester, N.Y.?] : Lawyers Co-operative Pub. Co., 1985-

Summary:
Section 19 authorizes the Board of Library Commissioners (the Board) to spend state 
money for library services; appoints the Board as the state's liaison with the federal 
government regarding federal grants for library services; directs the Board to cooperate 
with the Library of Congress for administering the program of talking books and 
specifically authorizes state and other spending for that program.  Section 19e deals with 
the Board's grant-making capacity and directs the Board to make grants to establish and 
develop services from library media centers of all types to the handicapped and 
disadvantaged including persons who are visually impaired, mentally, physically, or 
emotionally handicapped. 

Text:
Chapter 78: Section 19. Powers, duties and status of board 
The board of library commissioners may expend such sums as may be appropriated for 
the extension and encouragement of library services within the commonwealth. The said 
board is hereby designated as the state agency to deal with the federal government with 
respect to federal grants which may be made available to the commonwealth for 
promoting library services, and to administer such state plans as may be approved as a 
condition of such grants. The board may contract with any other state agency, city or 
town, public or private library to provide improved library services in an area, or to 
secure such library services as may be agreed upon, which services may include, but need 
not be limited to, the lending of books and related library materials, the establishment of 
branch libraries, depositories or bookmobile service, and to co-operative purchasing and 
processing of books, recordings, films and related library materials. The board shall 
cooperate with the Library of Congress or its successors relative to the administration of 
the program of talking books and may expend such state, federal or other funds as are 
available for such purpose. The board shall also represent the commonwealth in the 
receipt and disbursement of funds made available to the commonwealth from any private 
source for the promotion of library services. The state treasurer shall be the custodian of 
funds for this purpose received from the federal government or private services. 

Chapter 78: Section 19E. Library media services; comprehensive statewide program; 
funds; standards 
The board of library commissioners, hereinafter called the board, shall, subject to 
appropriation, establish a comprehensive statewide program for the improvement and 
development of library services for all citizens. Such funds as may be appropriated shall 
be distributed by the board for the following purposes: 
(1) for the establishment of the Boston public library as a statewide reference and referral 
center for Massachusetts libraries; 
(2) for the establishment and development of cooperation and coordination among 
libraries, including the authority to: 
(a) provide coordination and administration of cooperative statewide programs of 
services and statewide coordination of regional programs; 
(b) provide for identification, maintenance, development and preservation of critical 
research collections; 
(c) provide statewide access to specialized information resources, research collections 
and specialized reference and information services; 
(d) participate in interstate library services if such participation will increase the 
availability of library services; 
(e) provide statewide delivery services; 
(f) provide statewide interlibrary loan services; 
(g) provide education, training and technical advisory services; and 
(h) provide funding for grants for projects that demonstrate innovative uses of 
technology, interlibrary cooperation or shared services delivery to improve information 
delivery to library users. 
For the establishment and development of library media centers in county and state 
institutions. 
In making grants under this clause the board shall establish minimum standards for such 
library service which take into account: 
(a) the type of institution; 
(b) the size of the resident population; 
(c) the availability of library media services to the institutional population; 
(d) the qualifications of personnel for staffing of a library media center; 
(e) the institution’s commitment to annual budgetary support for library media services. 
For the establishment and development of services from library media centers of all types 
to the handicapped and disadvantaged including: 
(a) the establishment and development of library media services and centers for persons 
whose native language is not English. The board shall establish standards for such 
services and centers; 
(b) the development of library media services for the elderly, the unemployed, the poor, 
the functionally illiterate, and those persons who have cultural, social, or educational 
disadvantages that prevent them from using library media centers and services designed 
for persons without said disadvantages; 
(c) the establishment and development of library media services for persons who are 
visually impaired, mentally, physically, or emotionally handicapped. 
To aid public library planning, reconstruction and construction. The board shall adopt 
standards consistent with the provisions of sections nineteen G to nineteen K, inclusive, 
in allocating funds for these purposes. 
To conduct, contract for, fund or publish studies relative to needs and services of library 
media centers of the commonwealth. The funding of such studies shall be for the purpose 
of advising the board in carrying out the provisions of this section. Such studies may 
include the testing and evaluation of findings by the board. 
 


Michigan

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	State Board for Libraries
	
Citation(s):	397.491-397.495

Heading(s):	State library for blind

Link(s):	
http://www.legislature.mi.gov/(S(r01hmo45xmrr25v20gejeqni))/mileg.aspx?page=getObj
ect&objectName=mcl-Act-127-of-1959

Print:		Michigan compiled laws service. 2001 ed. Charlottesville, VA : 		
		LexisNexis, c2001-

Summary:
Places the State Library for Blind under the jurisdiction of the State Board for Libraries 
(the Board); gives the Board full power to administer the Library, including determining 
standards, making rules regarding both braille and talking books, overseeing 
appropriations, and determining personnel qualifications.

Text:
397.491 State library for blind; transfer to state board for libraries. 
Sec. 1.
The state library for the blind, located at the employment institution for the blind at 
Saginaw, is hereby placed under the jurisdiction of the state board for libraries. 

397.492 State library for blind; administration, rules and regulations. 
Sec. 2.
The state board for libraries shall have full power to administer this library, determine 
standards of operation, and make rules and regulations that will best serve both Braille 
and talking book readers.
 
397.493 State library for blind; appropriation. 
Sec. 3.
The state board for libraries shall administer the appropriation for said library.
 
397.494 State library for blind; personnel, qualifications. 
Sec. 4.
The state board for libraries shall have full power to determine the qualifications of the 
personnel in said library and fill all vacancies, subject to the state civil service 
regulations.
 
397.495 State library for blind; transfer of powers and duties to state board for libraries. 
Sec. 5.
Any and all powers and duties vested by any law of this state in the state library for the 
blind are hereby transferred and vested in the state board for libraries.


Minnesota

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Dept. of Education, Minn. Library for the Blind and Physically 		
		Handicapped  (aka Minn. Braille and Talking Book Library)

Citation(s):	134.31
		134.32

Heading(s):	Department of Education; library responsibilities
		Grant authorization; types of grants

Link(s):	https://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/statutes/?id=134.31
		https://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/statutes/?id=134.32

Print:		Minnesota statutes annotated. St. Paul, Minn. : Thomson/West, [1946-

Summary:
Subdivision 4a of 134.31 directs the Dept. of Education to provide library services to the 
blind and physically handicapped via the Minnesota Library for the Blind and Physically 
Handicapped through a cooperative agreement with the Library of Congress.  Subdivision 
6 of 134.32 authorizes the Dept. to make grants to provide library services for the blind 
and physically handicapped.


Text:
134.31 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION; LIBRARY RESPONSIBILITIES.
Subdivision 1. Library service.
The state shall, as an integral part of its responsibility for public education, support the 
provision of library service for every citizen, the development of cooperative programs 
for the sharing of resources and services among all libraries, and the establishment of 
jointly operated library services at a single location where appropriate.
Subd. 2. Advice and instruction.
The Department of Education shall give advice and instruction to the managers of any 
public library or to any governing body maintaining a library or empowered to do so by 
law upon any matter pertaining to the organization, maintenance, or administration of 
libraries. The department may also give advice and instruction, as requested, to 
postsecondary educational institutions, state agencies, governmental units, nonprofit 
organizations, or private entities. It shall assist, to the extent possible, in the 
establishment and organization of library service in those areas where adequate services 
do not exist, and may aid in improving previously established library services. The 
department shall also provide assistance to school districts, regional library systems, and 
member libraries interested in offering joint library services at a single location.
Subd. 3. Library resources.
The department may provide, for any library in the state, books, journals, audiovisual 
items, information services or resource materials it deems appropriate and necessary and 
shall encourage the sharing of library resources and the development of interlibrary 
cooperation.
Subd. 4. Collect statistics.
The department shall collect statistics on the receipts, expenditures, services, and use of 
the regional public library systems and the public libraries of the state. It shall also collect 
statistics on all activities undertaken pursuant to sections 134.31 to 134.355. 
Subd. 4a. Services to the blind and physically handicapped.
The Minnesota Department of Education shall provide specialized services to the blind 
and physically handicapped through the Minnesota Library for the Blind and Physically 
Handicapped under a cooperative plan with the National Library Services for the Blind 
and Physically Handicapped of the Library of Congress.
Subd. 5.
[Repealed, 2001 c 161 s 58] 
Subd. 6. Advisory committee.
The commissioner shall appoint an advisory committee of five members to advise the 
staff of the Minnesota Braille and Talking Book Library on long-range plans and library 
services. Members shall be people who use the library. Section 15.059 governs this 
committee except that the committee shall not expire. 

134.32 GRANT AUTHORIZATION; TYPES OF GRANTS
Subdivision 1. Provision of grants.
The department shall provide the grants specified in this section from any available state, 
federal, or other funds.
Subd. 2.
[Repealed, 1995 c 186 s 39] 
Subd. 3. Regional library basic system support grants.
It shall provide regional library basic system support grants to regional public library 
systems which meet the requirements of section 134.34, to assist those systems in 
providing basic system services. 
Subd. 4. Special project grants.
It may provide special project grants to assist innovative and experimental library 
programs including, but not limited to, special services for American Indians and the 
Spanish-speaking, delivery of library materials to homebound persons, other extensions 
of library services to persons without access to libraries and projects to strengthen and 
improve library services.
Subd. 5. Interlibrary exchange grants.
It may provide grants for interlibrary exchange of books, periodicals, resource material, 
reference information and the expenses incident to the sharing of library resources and 
materials, including planning, development and operating grants to multicounty, 
multitype library systems.
Subd. 6. Library service grants.
It may provide grants for the improvement of library services at welfare and corrections 
institutions and for library service for the blind and physically disabled.
Subd. 7. Construction or remodeling grants.
It may provide grants for construction or remodeling of library facilities from any state 
and federal funds specifically appropriated for this purpose.
Subd. 8. Rulemaking.
(a) The commissioner shall promulgate rules consistent with sections 134.32 to 134.355 
governing: 
(1) applications for these grants;
(2) computation formulas for determining the amounts of establishment grants and 
regional library basic system support grants; and
(3) eligibility criteria for grants.
(b) To the extent allowed under federal law, a construction grant applicant, in addition to 
the points received under Minnesota Rules, part 3530.2632, shall receive an additional 
five points if the construction grant is for a project combining public library services and 
school district library services at a single location.


Mississippi

Region:	South

Agency:	Mississippi Library Commission

Citation(s):	39-3-107

Heading(s):	General powers and duties of commission

Link(s):	http://michie.com/mississippi/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm&cp=

Print:		Mississippi code 1972, annotated : adopted as the official code of the State 
		of Mississippi by the 1972 session of the Legislature.  Charlottesville, Va. 	
		: LexisNexis, c1972-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Mississippi code.  The Mississippi Library 
Commission may establish and operate county and regional libraries and use funds from 
sources other than its own general funds to establish, improve, and equalize library 
services throughout the state.]

Text:
§ 39-3-107. General powers and duties of commission.
The Mississippi Library Commission, upon request, shall give advice to all schools, 
public and other libraries, and to all communities which may propose to establish them, 
as to the best means of establishing and maintaining such libraries, the selection of books, 
cataloging and other details of library management. It may also purchase and operate 
traveling libraries, and circulate such traveling libraries within the state among 
communities, libraries, schools, colleges, universities, library associations, study clubs, 
charitable and penal institutions free of cost, except for transportation, and establish 
county and regional libraries and use any funds, separate and apart from the general 
library commission funds, which might come into its custody from any source, for such 
purpose, and for the purpose of establishing, stimulating, increasing, improving and 
equalizing library service in the various counties within the state, under such rules for 
safekeeping, preservation, care, handling of the books and allocation of the funds as may 
be fixed by the commission. It may publish such lists and circulars of information as it 
shall deem necessary, and it may also conduct a summer school of library instruction and 
a clearinghouse for periodicals for free gifts to local libraries. The commission shall each 
year obtain from all libraries in the state reports showing the condition, growth, 
development and manner of conducting such libraries, together with such other facts and 
statistics regarding the same as may be deemed of public interest by the commission, and 
it shall be the duty of the board of the Mississippi Library Commission to make an annual 
report to the Legislature of the facts of public interest and value in relation to the work of 
the commission. The Mississippi Library Commission shall adopt rules and regulations 
relative to the allocation of state aid funds to public library systems.
  


Missouri

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Secretary of State, State Library
	
Citation(s):	181.021
		181.065
	
Heading(s):	Secretary of state to manage state library and Wolfner library --functions--	
		report--receipt of property. 

		State aid to libraries for services for blind and physically handicapped--	
		state librarian to administer services.

Link(s):	http://www.moga.mo.gov/statutes/c100-199/1810000065.htm
		http://www.moga.mo.gov/statutes/c100-199/1810000021.htm

Print:		Vernon's annotated Missouri statutes. St. Paul, Minn. : West Group, 	
		[c1951-

Summary:
181.021 places the State Library under the control of the Secretary of State; authorizes 
the Secretary to receive funds, books, etc.; directs the Secretary to run the Wolfner 
Library for the blind and physically handicapped and to guarantee library services for 
eligible citizens.  181.065 allows the General Assembly to appropriate funds to any 
library designated by Library of Congress as a library for the blind and physically 
handicapped; directs the State Librarian to request an annual budget for any library so 
designated and to monitor the services provided by the library.

Text:
Secretary of state to manage state library and Wolfner library --functions--report--receipt 
of property. 
181.021. The Missouri state library shall be under the control of the secretary of state and 
operated under rules and regulations promulgated by the secretary of state. The secretary 
of state shall:
(1) Direct the survey of services given by libraries which may be established or assisted 
under any law for state grants-in-aid to libraries; 
(2) Further the coordination of library services furnished by the state with those of local 
libraries and other educational agencies; 
(3) Publish an annual report showing conditions and progress of public library service in 
Missouri; 
(4) Furnish information and counsel as to the best means of establishing and maintaining 
libraries, the selection of materials, cataloging, and other details of library management; 
provide assistance in organizing libraries or improving service given by them and assist 
library services in state institutions; 
(5) Receive and administer grants from the United States under any act of Congress for 
public libraries, or other types of library service, and make rules and regulations in 
connection with such grants as may be necessary or required in the administration 
thereof; 
(6) Receive gifts of money, books or other property which may be used or held in trust 
for the purposes given; 
(7) Administer state grants-in-aid and encourage local support for the betterment of local 
library service and generally promote an effective statewide public library system; 
(8) Procure and disseminate information by any means necessary within the state among 
individuals, communities, libraries, schools, charitable and state institutions, state 
departments and other organizations; 
(9) Administer the Wolfner Library for the blind and physically handicapped and ensure 
library services to the eligible blind and physically handicapped residents of this state; 
(10) Appoint members to the secretary of state's council on library development, as set 
forth in section 181.022. 


State aid to libraries for services for blind and physically handicapped--state librarian to 
administer services. 
181.065. 1. The general assembly may appropriate moneys to any library which is 
designated by the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, 
Library of Congress, with the concurrence of the state librarian, as a regional or sub-
regional library to furnish library service to eligible blind and physically handicapped 
citizens as defined in Public Law 89-522 (1966). 
2. The state librarian shall administer the library service for the blind and physically 
handicapped, and request an annual operating budget for regional or sub-regional 
libraries providing services to the blind and physically handicapped as defined in Public 
Law 89-522 (1966), and shall monitor services and activities from any library in Missouri 
which may be designated by the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically 
Handicapped, Library of Congress, with the concurrence of the state librarian, as a sub-
regional library for the blind and physically handicapped. 




Montana

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library Commission	

Citation(s):	22-1-103

Heading(s):	State Library Commission -- Authority

Link(s):	http://data.opi.mt.gov/bills/mca/22/1/22-1-103.htm

Print:		Montana code annotated. Helena, Mont. : Montana Legislative Council, 	
		1978-

Summary:
Section 22-1-103(6) directs the State Library Commission to provide library services to 
the blind and physically handicapped.

Text:
22-1-103. State library commission -- authority.
The state library commission may:
(1) give assistance and advice to all tax-supported or public libraries in the state and to all 
counties, cities, towns, or regions in the state that propose to establish libraries, as to the 
best means of establishing and improving those libraries;
(2) maintain and operate the state library and make provision for its housing;
(3) (a) accept and expend in accordance with the terms of a grant any grant of federal 
funds that is available to the state for library purposes;
(b) accept, receive, and administer any gifts, donations, bequests, and legacies made to 
the Montana state library. Unless otherwise provided by the donor, gifts, donations, 
bequests, and legacies must be deposited in the Montana state library trust established in 
22-1-225.
(4) make rules and establish standards for the administration of the state library and for 
the control, distribution, and lending of books and materials;
(5) serve as the agency of the state to accept and administer any state, federal, or private 
funds or property appropriated for or granted to it for library service or foster libraries in 
the state and establish regulations under which funds must be disbursed;
(6) provide library services for the blind and for individuals with physical disabilities;
(7) furnish, by contract or otherwise, library assistance and information services to state 
officials, state departments, and residents of those parts of the state inadequately serviced 
by libraries;
(8) act as a state board of professional standards and library examiners, develop standards 
for public libraries, and adopt rules for the certification of librarians;
(9) designate areas for and establish federations of libraries. 


Nebraska

Region:	West

Agency:	Nebraska Library Commission

Citation(s):	51-403	
		51-406

Heading(s):	Nebraska Library Commission; powers and duties; director; 		
		appointment; salary.
		Books; loans to libraries.

Link(s):	http://uniweb.legislature.ne.gov/laws/statutes.php?statute=s5104003000

Print:		Revised statutes of Nebraska annotated. Charlottesville, VA : LexisNexis, 	
		1995-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Nebraska Revised Statutes.  Section 51-403 
establishes the Nebraska Library Commission and empowers the agency to promote, 
develop, and coordinate library programs throughout the state, as well as to receive 
federal library funds.  Section 51-406 allows the Commission to loan materials to local 
libraries.]

Text:
51-403 Nebraska Library Commission; powers and duties; director; appointment; salary.
The powers and duties of the Nebraska Library Commission shall be (1) to make rules 
and regulations not inconsistent with law for its government and operations, (2) to 
appoint a director, at a salary to be fixed by the commission, who shall be a technically 
trained, qualified, and experienced librarian, a graduate of an American Library 
Association accredited library school, to administer the work of the commission as 
hereinafter specified, (3) to authorize the director to employ such assistance as may be 
necessary to properly carry out the requirements of sections 51-401 to 51-410, (4) to be 
responsible for the statewide promotion, development, and coordination of library 
programs and services in accordance with nationally acceptable library standards, (5) to 
receive, as the legally designated state governmental agency, federal library funds which 
by federal law are to be dispersed within the state by a prescribed formula, (6) to accept 
and administer any gifts, bequests, and legacies which, in the opinion of the director and 
the commission, may be of value to it, and (7) to make a biennial report for the past two 
fiscal years to the Governor of its activities and the progress of its work on or before 
December 15 in each even-numbered year. 

51-406 Books; loans to libraries.
Any books, collection of books or other property of the Nebraska Library Commission 
may be loaned to any library, under such rules for the safekeeping, preservation, care, 
handling and management of the same as may be fixed by the Nebraska Library 
Commission. 
 


Nevada

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library and Archives

Citation(s):	378.080
		378.081
		378.083

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of State Library and Archives Administrator: Operation 
		of State Library and Archives.
		Responsibility for statewide program of development and coordination of 	
		library and informational services.
		Development of standards and statewide master plan for public libraries.

Link(s):	http://www.leg.state.nv.us/NRS/NRS-378.html#NRS378Sec080

Print:		West's Nevada revised statutes annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : West Group, 	
		c2000-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Nevada Revised Statutes.  Section 378.080 
allows the State Library and Archives Administrator (the Administrator) to loan or 
borrow materials and to receive federal or other funds for library services.  Section 
378.081 addresses providing technical assistance to local libraries and authority to 
contract with other agencies.  Section 378.083 directs the Administrator to develop 
standards for public libraries that include services, etc. for persons of all ages, including 
persons with handicaps.]

Text:
NRS 378.080  Powers and duties of State Library and Archives Administrator: Operation 
of State Library and Archives.
1. The State Library and Archives Administrator is responsible for the State Library and 
Archives.
2. He shall:
(a) Administer the State Library and Archives in accordance with the law. The State 
Library must also be administered in accordance with good library practice.
(b) Withdraw from the Library’s collection and dispose of items no longer needed.
(c) Maintain the State Library, including the selection, acquisition, circulation and 
custody of books, periodicals, pamphlets, films, recordings, papers and other materials 
and equipment.
(d) Maintain a comprehensive collection and reference service to meet the reference 
needs of public officers, departments or agencies of the State, and other libraries and 
related agencies.
(e) Make and enforce regulations necessary for the administration, government and 
protection of the State Library and all property belonging thereto.
(f) Issue official lists of publications of the State and other bibliographical and 
informational publications as appropriate.
3. He may:
(a) Borrow from, lend to and exchange books and other library and informational 
materials with other libraries and related agencies.
(b) Accept, administer and distribute, in accordance with the terms thereof, any money, 
materials or other aid granted, appropriated or made available to the state library for 
library purposes by the United States or any of its agencies or by any other source, public 
or private.

NRS 378.081  Powers and duties of State Library and Archives Administrator: 
Responsibility for statewide program of development and coordination of library and 
informational services.
1. The State Library and Archives Administrator is responsible for the statewide program 
of development and coordination of library and informational services.
2.  He shall:
(a) Collect, compile and publish statistics and information concerning the operation of 
libraries in this State.
(b) Carry out continuing studies and analyses of library problems.
(c) Maintain a clearinghouse of information, data and other materials in the field of 
library and informational services.
(d) Provide advice and technical assistance to public libraries, other libraries, agencies of 
the State, political subdivisions, planning groups and other agencies and organizations.
(e) Make available to public libraries advice and technical assistance with respect to 
programs of public relations.
(f) Assist and cooperate with other state agencies and officials, local governments, federal 
agencies and organizations in carrying out programs involving library and informational 
services.
(g) Encourage and assist the efforts of libraries and local governments to develop mutual 
and cooperative solutions to problems with respect to library and informational services.
(h) Administer such funds as may be made available by the Legislature for improvement 
of public library services, interlibrary cooperation or for other library and information-
transfer services.
(i) Subject to the approval of local governing bodies, designate certain libraries as 
resource center libraries and develop and encourage cooperative steps to link these 
centers with other libraries in a reference and information network.
3.  He may contract with agencies, organizations, libraries, library schools, boards of 
education and universities, public and private, within or outside this State, for library 
services, facilities, research or any other related purposes.

NRS 378.083  Powers and duties of State Library and Archives Administrator: 
Development of standards and statewide master plan for public libraries.
The State Library and Archives Administrator shall develop:
1. Standards for public libraries which will serve as recommendations for those libraries 
with respect to services, resources, personnel and programs to provide sources of 
information to persons of all ages, including persons with disabilities and disadvantaged 
persons, and encourage continuing education beyond the years of formal education. The 
standards must take into account the differences in size and resources among the public 
libraries of the State.
2. A statewide master plan for public libraries, including plans for levels of library 
services and resources, which is developed through a continuing process of planning in 
which representatives from public libraries throughout the State participate. The master 
plan must be designed to extend 5 years into the future and must be made current at least 
every 2 years.




New Hampshire

Region:	North

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	Section 201-A:2

Heading(s):	Services of the State Library

Link(s):	http://www.gencourt.state.nh.us/rsa/html/XVI/201-A/201-A-2.htm

Print:		New Hampshire revised statutes annotated, 1955. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 	
		Thomson/West, 1955-

Summary:
Directs the State Library to provide disabled persons with talking books, large print 
books, and other federally funded services.

Text:
201-A:2 Services of the State Library.
The state library shall provide the following library services and facilities for the benefit 
of the various branches of state government and for the people of the state. 
I. LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE SERVICE. A reference service and collection of 
materials especially designed to provide such information as will aid the members of the 
general court to meet their legislative responsibilities. 
II. [Repealed.] 
III. GENERAL REFERENCE SERVICE. A collection of books and related materials 
necessary for an adequate reference service to provide for the needs of state and local 
officials and employees, educators and scholars, and the general public. This collection 
shall include: 
(a) Materials especially relating to the work of the several departments; 
(b) Books, manuscripts and other material concerning the state, including all the official 
publications of the state and its political subdivisions; and 
(c) Books and related materials to supplement and reinforce the resources of public 
libraries and school libraries. 
IV. [Repealed.] 
V. ADVISORY AND PLANNING ASSISTANCE. Promote and advance library service 
throughout the state and serve as the coordinator for a statewide system of libraries. It 
may supply professional advice and information on the management and operation of 
libraries through conferences, institutes, correspondence and publications and may 
organize and administer projects to demonstrate efficient and economical methods of 
improved service. It shall collect information about libraries; study library problems and 
make the findings known throughout the state. 
VI. LIBRARY SERVICES TO PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES AND ADVISORY 
SERVICE TO STATE INSTITUTIONS. 
(a) Provide disabled persons with talking books, large print books, and other federally 
funded services as provided under P.L. 91-600 as amended. 
(b) Provide consultant services to the tax-supported residential-treatment institutions of 
New Hampshire. Such services shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
(1) To render encouragement, advice and assistance for the establishment and operation 
of institutional libraries; 
(2) To establish guidelines for institutional libraries; 
(3) To make grants for developing library media services; 
(4) To collect information on the nature, extent and quality of institutional library 
services and publish statistics on a regular basis; 
(5) To promote the need for adequate institutional library service to the community at 
large; 
(6) To promote inter-departmental cooperation and communication between institutional 
libraries; 
(7) To promote cooperation between the public libraries, state agencies and institutional 
libraries; and 
(8) To serve as a channel for informing institutions of federal and other library funding. 


New Jersey

Region:	North

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	18A:73-35	

Heading(s):	Duties of State Library

Link(s):	http://lis.njleg.state.nj.us/

Print:		New Jersey statutes annotated. Permanent ed. St. Paul : West Group, 	
		[1939-

Summary:
Subsection (d) directs the State Library to maintain a library service for the handicapped.

Text:
18A:73-35  Duties of State Library.
20.The State Library shall:
(a) Maintain library resources and information services over a broad range of subjects 
which affect the educational, intellectual, cultural, economic and political life of the 
State;
(b) Provide special library services for the legislative, executive and judicial branches of 
State Government, supplemental library service for New Jersey libraries and citizens and 
direct library service for the handicapped;
(c) Purchase or otherwise acquire, and maintain a general collection of books, 
periodicals, newspapers, maps, slides, films and other library materials for the use of 
State and local governments, libraries, and the public generally; and exchange, discard, 
sell, or otherwise dispose of books and library materials as required within the purposes 
stated herein and all moneys to be secured from such sales shall be paid into the treasury 
to be used for the benefit of the State Library when appropriated to that purpose;
(d) Maintain as part of the State Library, a general reference service; a legislative 
reference service; a law library service; a documents depository service; an archival 
service for New Jersey materials; a records management service for State and local 
governments; a deposit and exchange service for library materials; an interlibrary loan 
service; an advisory service for public libraries, school libraries, libraries of institutions 
of higher education, industrial, commercial and other special libraries, State department 
and agency libraries, and the libraries the State maintains within the institutions carrying 
out its health, welfare and correctional programs; and a library service for the 
handicapped; and provide such other services as may be  required by law;
(e) Preserve the records of the history of New Jersey through its official archives and 
other materials and promote interest and research in the history of the State;
(f) Coordinate a Statewide system of libraries in New Jersey, and administer State and 
federal programs for the development of libraries, library facilities, library resources and 
library services in New Jersey, and require such reports as are necessary for the proper 
administration of its duties and for the gathering and publishing of annual and occasional 
statistics on libraries in the State;
(g) Promote and demonstrate library service throughout the State, and study library 
problems and needs in New Jersey and make the resultant findings known generally.


New Mexico

Region:	West

Agency:	Cultural Affairs Dept., Library Division

Citation(s):	18-2-4

Heading(s):	Duties of the State Librarian

Link(s):	http://www.conwaygreene.com/nmsu/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm&2.0

Print:		New Mexico statutes annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : Thomson/West, c2003- 

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the New Mexico Statutes.  Section 18-2-4 directs 
the State Librarian to promote an effective statewide system and to cooperate with other 
library agencies, including national library agencies.] 

Text:
The state librarian shall:    
A. administer the state library;    
B. administer grants-in-aid and encourage local library service and generally promote an 
effective statewide library system;    
C. make studies and surveys of public library needs;    
D. supply advice and information to existing libraries and aid in the establishment of new 
libraries;    
E. obtain each year, from all libraries in the state, reports showing the conditions, growth 
and development, together with such other facts and statistics regarding them as is of 
public interest;    
F. cooperate with other educational services and governmental agencies of the state, and 
with library agencies of other states and with national library agencies;    
G. cooperate with the administrative services division in preparing the budget for the 
state library;    
H. administer the library extension service;    
I. make rules and regulations necessary to administer the division and as provided by law; 
and to perform other duties as provided by law; and    
J. establish and administer a library depository and distribution system for state 
documents and publications.    
  
 
New York

Region:	North

Agency:	Dept. of Education, State Library
		New York Public Library	

Citation(s):	Education law, Title 1, Article 5, Part 2, Sec. 273

Heading(s):	Apportionment of state aid to libraries and library systems

Link(s):	http://public.leginfo.state.ny.us

Print:		Gould's consolidated laws of New York. Binghamton, N.Y. : Gould 	
		Publications, c1988-

Summary:
Section 273-1 h. (1) sets forth an amount of state aid for "coordinated outreach services" 
aimed at disadvantaged populations, explicitly including the blind and physically 
handicapped.  Section 273-1 i . provides funds for services to the blind and physically 
handicapped via the New York Public Library.  Section 273-8 funds the New York State 
Talking Book and Braille Library.

Text:
§ 273. Apportionment of state aid to libraries and library systems. 
1. Any public library system providing service under an approved plan during a calendar 
year shall be entitled to receive during that calendar year state aid consisting of the 
following amounts:
a. An annual grant of:
(1) Ten thousand dollars where the library system serves less than one county, or
(2) Twenty thousand dollars where the library system serves one entire county, or
(3) Where the library system serves more than one county the system shall be entitled to  
receive twenty-five thousand dollars for each entire county served and/or ten thousand 
dollars for each county, any part of which is served by the library system. If an entire 
county is served by two or more library systems, each of which serves a part thereof,  
each of such library systems shall be entitled to receive a grant of ten thousand dollars 
and in addition, a pro rata share of an additional sum of ten thousand dollars, such share 
to be computed in accordance with the ratio which the population of the area of the 
county served by such library system bears to the total  population of the county, as  
determined under subdivision one of section two hundred seventy-two of this article.
b. In a library system which submits a plan for further development of its central library, 
which plan shall be approved by the commissioner in relation to standards for such 
central libraries, the amount of  central library development aid shall be:
(1) thirty-two cents per capita of the population within the chartered area of service of 
such library system with a minimum amount of one hundred five thousand dollars, and
(2) an additional seventy-one thousand five hundred dollars to the library system for the  
purchase of books and materials including non-print materials, as defined in regulations 
of the commissioner, for its central  library. Ownership of library materials and 
equipment purchased with such central library aid provided by this paragraph shall be 
vested in the public library system.
c. The sum of ninety-four cents per capita of population of  the area served.
d. (1) An amount equal to the amount by which expenditures by the library system for 
books, periodicals, binding and non-print materials during the preceding fiscal year 
exceeds forty cents per capita of population of the area served but the total apportionment  
pursuant to this subparagraph shall not exceed sixty-eight cents per capita of population 
served.  In the first year in which any library system changes its reporting from the 
calendar year to a fiscal year other than the calendar year, it shall file any additional 
reporting schedules deemed necessary by the commissioner for the purpose of 
determining state aid for the calendar year.
(2) Each public library system with an automation program to support bibliographic 
control and interlibrary sharing of information resources of member libraries, and to 
coordinate and integrate the automated system or systems of such member libraries 
consistent with regulations of the commissioner, shall be eligible to receive an amount 
equal to seven percent of  the amount earned in subparagraph one of this paragraph, or  
seventy-six thousand five hundred dollars, whichever is more.
e. The sum of fifty-two dollars per square mile of area served by the library system in the 
case of library systems serving one county or less. Such sum shall be increased by five 
dollars for each additional entire county served, provided, however, that no 
apportionment pursuant to this paragraph shall exceed seventy-two dollars per square  
mile of area served.  If an entire county is served by two or more library systems, each of 
which serves a part thereof, each of such library systems shall be entitled to receive, in 
addition to the aid computed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this 
paragraph, a pro rata share of an increase of five dollars to be computed as follows: the  
sum resulting from the computation of five dollars per square mile of area served by the 
one of such library systems which would receive the largest amount of aid pursuant to 
this paragraph shall be pro rated among the library systems serving such county  in  
accordance with the ratio which the  population of the area served by each of such library
systems bears to the population of the county as determined under subdivision one of 
section two hundred seventy-two of this article.
f. (1) Local library services aid. Except in cities with a population in excess of one 
million inhabitants, each chartered and registered public and free association library 
meeting standards of service promulgated by the commissioner, and each public or free  
association library serving a city with a population of one hundred thousand or more
which merged with the public library system on or before January first, nineteen hundred  
seventy-six and which meets standards of service promulgated by the commissioner, shall 
be eligible to receive annually thirty-one cents per capita of the population of the library's 
chartered service area as on file with the commissioner on January first of the calendar 
year for which aid is payable, or, thirty-one cents per capita of the population of the city 
with a population of one hundred  thousand or more whose public or free association 
library merged with the public library system on or before January first, nineteen hundred 
seventy-six, with a minimum amount of one thousand five hundred dollars, except that 
no library shall receive less than the amount of local library services aid received in two 
thousand one. Regulations of the commissioner shall provide a method for establishing 
changes in chartered service areas or determining populations thereof. Local library  
services aid shall be paid to the system for distribution within thirty days of receipt to its
member libraries in accordance with this subdivision. Notwithstanding any contrary 
provisions of this subparagraph, the commissioner shall establish procedures under which 
a public or free association library may apply for a waiver of the requirements of the 
standards of service; provided, however, that any such waivers may only be granted in 
the same year in which the commissioner has apportioned a reduction adjustment.
(2) Local services support aid. Except in cities with a population in excess of one million 
inhabitants, each public library system operating under an approved plan of service shall 
be eligible to receive annually local services support aid equal to two-thirds of the total  
dollar amount paid in local library services aid to the member libraries of the system plus  
thirty-one cents per capita of the system's population who do not reside within the 
chartered service area of a member library.
(3) Local consolidated systems aid. In cities with a population in excess of one million 
inhabitants, each public library system operating under an approved plan of service shall 
be eligible to receive annually local consolidated system aid equal to the sum of (i) thirty-
one cents per capita of the population served by the system, but not less than the amount 
of local library incentive aid received in nineteen hundred ninety-one as reported on  the  
library's nineteen hundred ninety-one annual report; and (ii) an additional amount equal 
to two-thirds of  the total  dollar  amount  computed for the system pursuant to clause (i) 
of this subparagraph.
g. In addition to the sums otherwise provided in paragraphs a, b, c, d, e, f, h and i of this 
subdivision, the New York Public Library shall receive an amount equal to its actual 
expenditures for books, periodicals and binding for its research libraries which 
expenditures are not otherwise reimbursed or seven hundred sixty-seven thousand 
dollars, whichever is less, and the additional sum of five million six hundred forty-nine 
thousand six hundred dollars for the general support of such research  libraries. In 
addition to any other sums provided to such library, the sum of two million dollars shall 
be payable annually to the New York Public Library for the general support of library
services provided by the New York Public Library to the students of  the City University 
of New York and the sum of one million dollars shall be payable annually to the New 
York Public Library for the general support of its science, industry and business library.
h. (1) Coordinated outreach services. Each public library system which provides  
coordinated outreach services, as defined by regulations to be promulgated by the  
commissioner, to persons who are educationally disadvantaged or who are members of 
ethnic or minority groups in need of special library services, or who are unemployed and 
in need of job placement assistance, or who live in areas underserved by a library, or who  
are blind, physically disabled, have developmental or learning disabilities, or who are 
aged or confined in institutions, shall be entitled to receive annually forty-three thousand 
dollars and thirteen cents per capita of the total population of the area served.
(2) Adult literacy grants. The commissioner shall award annual grants for approved  
expenses for library-based programs conducted by public library systems and public and  
free association libraries which are members of a public library system to assist adults to 
increase their literacy  skills. The commissioner shall award such grants having 
determined  that such programs are being operated in direct coordination with local 
public schools, colleges and other organizations which are operating similar adult literacy  
programs. Annual state aid of two hundred thousand dollars shall be awarded for grants 
in accordance with regulations promulgated by the commissioner.  Ninety percent of the 
amount of any such adult literacy grant shall be payable to the library or system upon 
approval by the department. The final ten percent shall be payable upon completion of 
the project.
(3) Family literacy grants. The commissioner shall award annual grants for approved 
expenses for library-based family literacy programs for pre-school and school age 
children and their parents conducted by public library systems and public libraries and 
free association libraries which are members of a public library system.  Annual state aid 
of three hundred thousand dollars for grants shall be awarded in accordance with 
regulations promulgated by the commissioner.  Ninety percent of the amount of any such 
family literacy grant shall be payable to the library or system upon approval by the 
department. The final ten percent shall be payable upon completion of the project.
i. In addition to any other sums provided for such purposes, the New York Public  
Library shall receive annually the sum of seven hundred thirty-four thousand dollars for 
the program of the Schomburg center for research in black culture, and the additional  
sum of nine hundred eighty-four thousand dollars for the program of the library for the 
blind and physically handicapped.
j. In addition to any other sums provided to such library, the sum of two hundred fifty  
thousand dollars shall be paid annually to the New York Historical Society for making its 
library services available to the public.
k. In addition to any other sums provided to such library the sum of three hundred fifty  
thousand dollars shall be payable annually to the Brooklyn Public Library for its business 
library for each calendar year.
l. In addition to any other sums provided to such library, the sum of fifty thousand dollars 
shall be payable annually to the Buffalo and Erie County Public Library for a continuity 
of service project approved by the commissioner for each calendar year.
m. In addition to any other sums provided to such library system, the sum of thirty 
thousand dollars shall be payable annually to the Nassau library system for a continuity  
of service project approved by the commissioner for each calendar year.
n. The minimum annual grant available to a library system under paragraphs a, c and e 
and subparagraph one of paragraph d of this subdivision shall be six hundred seventy-five 
thousand dollars.
2. Within the amounts appropriated therefore moneys paid out pursuant to this section 
shall be paid out of the state treasury on vouchers certified by the commissioner after 
audit by and upon the warrant of the comptroller.
3. The commissioner may waive the requirement that a public library system serve an 
entire county to earn the maximum annual grant under subparagraphs two and three of 
paragraph a of subdivision one of this section and paragraphs b, c, e and h of subdivision 
one of this section where the commissioner deems reasonable effort has been made by  
the system to encourage membership by all libraries in the county.
4. Reference and research library resources system. a. Any reference and research library 
resources system providing service under an approved plan during a calendar year shall 
be entitled to receive annual state aid consisting of an annual grant of two hundred 
seventy thousand dollars plus the sum of one dollar and fifty cents per square mile of
area served plus the sum of six cents per capita of the population of the area served. Each 
system may annually appropriate funds received under this provision to obtain matching 
funds from the National Endowment for the Humanities in the United States Newspaper 
Program. The annual amount payable to each approved system under this paragraph shall
be payable on or before July first, provided that, upon receipt of annual system activity 
reports satisfactory to the commissioner, the commissioner shall determine the amount of 
any under- or overpayments and shall apply such adjustment to the next annual payment 
due such system.
b. The commissioner is hereby authorized to expend up to five hundred six thousand 
dollars annually in each state fiscal year to provide formula grants to approved reference  
and research library resources systems for provision of consumer health and medical 
information services for all types of libraries and library systems.  Such grants shall  
assist libraries in providing access to timely and accurate medical and health information 
for medical personnel and for the general public. In addition to any other sum provided in 
this subdivision, each reference and research library resources system providing service 
under an approved plan with a consumer health and medical library information services 
program for all types of libraries and library systems shall be eligible to receive an annual 
formula grant. Such formula grants shall be determined on the basis of criteria to be 
prescribed by the commissioner.  The commissioner shall provide the annual amount 
payable to each approved system under this paragraph in the following manner:
(1) Funds shall be available to each reference and research library resources system in  
such manner as to insure that the ratio of the amount each system is eligible to receive 
equals the weighted ratio of the total number of institutions as defined in subparagraph 
two of this paragraph in the region served by the system to the total number of such 
institutions in the state.
(2) For the purposes of determining the amount of funds available to each system, 
institutions and their weightings are as follows:
(i)  not-for-profit  hospitals  licensed  by the New York state health department, with a 
weighting of two;
(ii) for-profit teaching hospitals licensed  by the New York state health department, with 
an additional weighting of one; and
(iii) member  institutions of a reference and research library resources system, excluding  
public and hospital libraries, with a weighting of one.
c.  (1) The commissioner is hereby authorized to expend up to one million three hundred 
ninety-six thousand dollars in each state fiscal year to provide formula grants to approved  
reference and research library resources systems for provision of services to member 
hospital libraries in not-for-profit  hospitals licensed by the New York state health 
department, or to member libraries serving such hospitals.  Such formula grants shall be  
determined on the basis of criteria to be developed by the commissioner and shall assist 
member hospital libraries or member libraries serving hospitals in meeting the standards 
established by the regents in accordance with section two hundred fifty-four of this 
article.  Such formula grants shall support integration of member hospital libraries or 
member libraries serving hospitals into existing networks.
(2) The commissioner shall provide grants to the reference and research library resources 
systems in the following manner:
(a) an amount equal to seventy-five cents per square mile of area served by the reference  
and research library resource system in furtherance of the purposes of this paragraph, and 
(b) the remainder for library services to hospitals in accordance with regulations of the 
commissioner adopted for such purpose.
5. Coordinated collection development program for public and nonprofit independent 
colleges and universities.
a. Libraries of public and nonprofit independent colleges and universities are entitled to 
receive annual funding for a coordinated collection development grant if they meet the 
following conditions:
(1) Membership in a reference and research library resources system,
(2) Their resources are made available to the public, through full participation in the 
interlibrary loan and other resource sharing programs of the reference and research 
library resources system of which they are members, and
(3) They meet the requirements set forth in regulations adopted by the commissioner 
including but not confined to
(a) maintenance of effort,
(b) relationships between reference and research library resources systems' programs and 
the regional higher education master plan,
(c) submission of interlibrary loan statistics, and such other reports as may be required by 
the commissioner.
b. Public and nonprofit independent colleges and universities with libraries which meet 
the criteria of paragraph a of this subdivision are eligible for annual grants as follows:
(1) Four thousand four hundred dollars for each institution, and
(2) One dollar and four cents for each full-time equivalent student enrolled in each 
qualifying institution, in the academic year completed prior to the state fiscal year.  For  
purposes of this section, a full-time equivalent shall be calculated as follows:
(i) one full-time undergraduate student shall be considered one full-time equivalent 
student;
(ii) one part-time undergraduate student shall be considered one-third of a full-time 
equivalent student;
(iii) one part-time graduate student shall be considered one full-time equivalent student; 
and
(iv) one full-time graduate student shall be considered one and one-half of a full-time 
equivalent student.
c. Funds for the support of this program shall be appropriated to the department, except 
that funds for the state-operated institutions of the state university of New York and the  
senior colleges of the city university of New York, shall be appropriated to the state 
university of New York out of any moneys in the state treasury in the general fund to the  
credit of the state purposes fund not otherwise appropriated, and funds shall be 
appropriated to the city university of New York out of any moneys in the state treasury in 
the general fund to the credit of the local assistance fund not otherwise appropriated, and  
shall be subject to the same distribution formula as provided in paragraph b of this 
subdivision.

6.  Regional bibliographic data bases and interlibrary resources sharing.
a. The commissioner shall award annually to each of the approved nine reference and 
research library resources systems, from funds appropriated by the legislature for an 
annual grant for an automation program (i) to support bibliographic control and 
interlibrary sharing of information resources among all types of libraries and library  
systems in an area not less than that of a reference and research library resources system, 
and (ii) to coordinate and integrate the automated systems of the component member 
public library system or systems, school library system or systems and other automated  
systems within the area of the reference and research library resources system.
Each reference and research library resources system of such region shall be entitled to an 
annual grant of two hundred thousand dollars plus the sum of two cents per capita of the 
population served.
b. To be eligible for a grant, each reference and research library resources system shall 
meet the requirements set forth in regulations adopted by the commissioner which shall 
include standards relating to library automation, continuous development of the data 
base, and updating, access and linking of the data base programs.  Each reference and 
research library resources system shall include in its approved plan of service a 
description of a regional library automation program, which shall include all library 
systems in the region that are members of the reference and research library resources 
system.
7. Conservation and preservation of library research materials.
 a. The commissioner shall award in any state fiscal year an annual grant of one hundred 
twenty-six thousand dollars for a program of conservation and/or preservation of library 
research materials to each  of  the following comprehensive research libraries: Columbia 
university libraries, Cornell
university libraries, New York state library, New York university libraries, university  of 
Rochester libraries, Syracuse university libraries, the research libraries of the New York 
public library, state university of New York at Albany library, state university of New 
York at Binghamton library, state university of New York at Buffalo library, and state 
university of New York at Stony Brook library.
b. To be eligible for such grants, each such comprehensive research library must submit 
both a five-year plan and an annual program budget. The plan must satisfy criteria to be 
established by the commissioner in regulations relating  to the identification of library  
research materials, the need for their preservation, and the means of their conservation.
c.  Additional grants, the sum of which shall not exceed three hundred fifty thousand 
dollars in any state fiscal year, may be made to any or all of the eleven comprehensive 
research libraries for preservation and/or conservation of library research materials on the  
basis of project  proposals.  Approval of such proposals, and determination of funding 
level, shall be based upon their contribution to development of cooperative programs 
and/or facilities for conservation and/or preservation works in the state, including but not 
limited to such factors as: institutional commitment to development of a collective 
capacity and coordinated approach to conservation and preservation of research materials 
important to the people of the state; research value of materials to be preserved and/or 
conserved; appropriateness of conservation and preservation techniques in accordance 
with statewide planning and national standards; institutional capacity for successful 
completion of the project, including facilities, experience, and technical expertise; 
availability of staff with appropriate training and expertise; contribution of the institution 
to the project in matching funds and staff resources; and volume of interlibrary lending 
and access to holdings by the public. Ninety percent of each such grant shall be payable 
upon approval by the department and the remaining ten percent shall be payable upon 
project completion.
d. Other agencies and libraries, as defined in regulations promulgated by the 
commissioner, which are not eligible for funding under paragraph a of this subdivision, 
may receive separate grants the sum of which shall not exceed five hundred thousand 
dollars in any state fiscal year to support the preservation and/or conservation of unique  
library research materials.  Such agencies and libraries shall submit proposals which shall 
be evaluated and determinations of approval and funding shall be made on the same basis  
set forth in paragraph c of this subdivision. Ninety percent of each such grant shall be 
payable upon approval by the department and the remaining ten percent shall be payable 
upon project completion.
e. Funds made available under the provisions of this section may be used by 
comprehensive research libraries and other agencies eligible for funding to obtain 
matching funds from the national endowment for the humanities preservation program.
f. The commissioner shall establish an office for coordination of conservation and/or 
preservation of library research materials to identify the conservation and/or preservation 
needs of libraries within the state, to assess the technology available for such 
conservation and preservation, and to coordinate the conservation and preservation 
efforts resulting from this legislation.
8. New York state talking book and braille library. The New York state talking book and 
braille library shall be entitled to receive annually an amount equal to the product of the 
aid ceiling multiplied by the number of registered borrowers of such materials of such 
library as of the November report for the November immediately preceding the state 
fiscal year for which the payment will be made. Such amount shall be used to improve 
the quality of services provided to such borrowers.  For aid payable in each state fiscal 
year, the aid ceiling per registered borrower shall be nineteen dollars. Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the New York state talking book and braille library shall be 
the successor in interest to the New York state library for the blind and visually 
handicapped for all purposes, or the library for the blind and physically handicapped, and 
the change in name shall not affect the rights or interests of any party. Except where the 
context indicates a contrary intent, any reference in any other general or special law to the 
New York state library for the blind and visually handicapped or the library for the blind 
and physically handicapped shall be deemed a reference to the New York state talking 
book and braille library.
9.  State aid for a coordinated program of library and archival services at The Center for 
Jewish History, Inc. a. In addition to any other sums provided to The Center for Jewish 
History, Inc., the commissioner shall award in any state fiscal year an annual grant of two 
hundred thousand dollars for a coordinated program of library and archival services that 
will increase public access to the library and archival collections of The Center for Jewish 
History, Inc. and its member institutions.
b. The Center for Jewish History, Inc. is hereby admitted to the University of the State of  
New York and shall, as a condition of continued receipt of aid, maintain such status in 
accordance with regulations of the commissioner. Such regulations may include 
submission of a five-year plan and annual program budget.
10. State aid for summer reading programs. The commissioner is hereby authorized to 
expend the funds of  the love your library fund, established in section ninety-nine-l of the 
state finance law, which shall provide grants for participation in statewide summer 
reading programs as coordinated by the state library to public library systems on the basis 
of criteria to be developed by the commissioner. Upon a determination by the 
commissioner that there is adequate revenue available for a grant program in the 
upcoming fiscal year, grants shall be awarded as follows:
a. sixty percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall be made available 
to public library systems for use by member libraries by the commissioner in such 
manner as to insure that the ratio of the amount received within each system to the whole 
of the aid made available pursuant to this paragraph is no greater than the ratio of the
population served by such system to the population of the state; and
b. forty percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall be made available 
to library systems for use by their member libraries within each system by the 
commissioner in such manner as to insure that an equal amount is received within each 
system in the state.
11. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, each year commencing 
with the two thousand six calendar year, no library or library system shall receive less aid  
pursuant to this section or section two hundred seventy-one or two hundred seventy-two 
of this part than it would have been eligible to receive for the two thousand one calendar 
year solely by reason of a decrease in the population of the area served as a result of the 
latest approved federal census.
12.  The  commissioner is hereby authorized to expend in state fiscal year two thousand 
six--two thousand seven three million dollars and in state fiscal year two thousand seven-
-two thousand eight million dollars and in state fiscal year two thousand eight--two  
thousand nine seven million nine hundred forty thousand dollars and in state fiscal year 
two thousand nine--two thousand ten eight million dollars subject to an appropriation for 
formula grants to public library systems, reference and research library resources 
systems, and school library systems operating under an approved plan of service. Such 
formula grants shall be provided for the period commencing July first and ending on June 
thirtieth next following. Such formula grants will be distributed in the following manner:
a. Each public library system established pursuant to sections two hundred fifty-five and 
two hundred seventy-two of this part and operating under a plan approved by the 
commissioner is entitled to receive thirty-nine thousand dollars and an amount equal to 
ten and ninety-four hundredths percent of the amount of state aid received for the current 
year by such system under paragraphs a, c, d, e and n of subdivision one of this section 
for the two thousand nine--two thousand ten state fiscal year;
b. Each reference and research library resources system established pursuant to section 
two hundred seventy-two of this part and operating under a plan approved by the 
commissioner is entitled to receive thirty-nine thousand dollars and an amount equal to 
ten and ninety-four hundredths percent of the amount of state aid received for the current 
year under paragraph a of subdivision four of this section for the two thousand nine--two 
thousand ten state fiscal year; and
c.  Each school library system established pursuant to section two hundred eighty-two of 
this part and operating under a plan approved by the commissioner is entitled to receive 
thirty-nine thousand dollars and an amount equal to ten and ninety-four hundredths 
percent of the amount of state aid received for the current year by such system under 
paragraphs a, b, c, d, e and f of subdivision one of section two hundred eighty-four of this  
part for the two thousand nine--two thousand ten state fiscal year.


North Carolina

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. of Cultural Resources, State Library

Citation(s):	125-2 (9)

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of Dept. of Cultural Resources

Link(s):
http://www.ncleg.net/enactedlegislation/statutes/html/bychapter/chapter_125.html

Print:		West’s North Carolina general statutes annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 	
		Thomson/West, c2000-

Summary:
Directs the Dept. of Cultural Resources to provide library services to blind and physically 
handicapped persons, including braille and other materials; allows for cooperation and 
contracting with other agencies providing such services.

Text:
§ 125-2.  Powers and duties of Department of Cultural Resources.
The Department of Cultural Resources shall have the following powers and duties:
(1) To adopt a seal for use in official business.
(2) To make to the Governor a biennial report of its activities and needs, including 
recommendations for improving its services to the State, to be transmitted by the 
Governor to the General Assembly.
(3) To accept gifts, bequests and endowments for the purposes which fall within the 
general legal powers and duties of the Department of Cultural Resources. Unless 
otherwise specified by the donor or legator, the Department of Cultural Resources may 
either expend both the principal and interest of any gift or bequest or may invest such 
sums in whole or in part, by and with the consent of the State Treasurer, in securities in 
which sinking funds may be invested under the provisions of G.S. 142-34.
(4) To purchase and maintain collections of books, periodicals, newspapers, maps, films, 
audiovisual and other materials; to subscribe to computerized databases; to provide other 
resources, services and programs; and to serve as an information distribution center for 
State government and the people of the State as a means for the promotion of knowledge, 
education, commerce and business in the State.  The scope of the library's collections, 
resources and services should be determined by the Secretary of Cultural Resources upon 
consideration of the recommendations of the State Library Commission; and in making 
these decisions, the Secretary shall take into account the collections, resources and 
services of other libraries throughout the State and the availability of such collections, 
resources and services to the general public.  All materials owned by the State Library 
shall be available for free circulation to libraries and to all citizens of the State under 
rules and regulations fixed by the librarian, except that the librarian may restrict the 
circulation of books and other materials which, because they are rare or are used 
intensively in the library for reference purposes or for other good reasons, should be 
retained in the library at all times.  The public schools shall be given equal priority in 
borrowing all films which are available for circulation.
(5) To give assistance, advice and counsel to other State agencies maintaining special 
reference collections as to the best means of establishing and administering such libraries 
and collections.
(5a) To provide for the establishment and maintenance of union catalogs.
(6) To fix reasonable penalties for damage to or failure to return any book, periodical or 
other material owned by the Department of Cultural Resources, or for violation of any 
rule or regulation concerning the use of books, periodicals, and other materials in the 
custody of the Department of Cultural Resources.
(7) Repealed by Session Laws 1987, c. 199, s. 4.
(8) To give assistance, advice and counsel to all libraries in the State, to all communities 
which may propose to establish libraries, and to all persons interested in public libraries, 
as to the best means of establishing and administering such libraries, as to the selection of 
books, cataloguing, maintenance and other details of library management.
(9) To provide library services to blind and physically handicapped readers of North 
Carolina by making available to them books and other reading materials in braille, or 
sound recordings or any other medium used by the blind and physically handicapped; to 
enter into contracts and agreements with appropriate libraries and other organizations for 
the purposes of serving the blind and physically handicapped; to enter into contracts with 
library agencies of other states for providing library service to the blind and physically 
handicapped of those states, provided adequate compensation is paid for such service and 
such contract is otherwise advantageous to this State.
(10) To plan and coordinate cooperative programs between the various types of libraries 
within the State of North Carolina, and to coordinate State development with regional and 
national cooperative library programs; and to assist nonprofit corporations in organization 
and operation for the purposes of cooperative programs.


North Dakota

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	Century Code, chap. 54-24-03
		Century Code, chap. 54-25.03.1

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of State Librarian
		Acceptance of Federal aid

Link(s):	http://www.legis.nd.gov/cencode/t54c24.pdf

Print:		West's North Dakota century code annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 		
		Thomson/West, c2008-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the North Dakota Century Code.  54-24-03, 
subsection 4 directs the State Library to make library materials available to citizens who 
do not have adequate library facilities.  54-24-03.1 allows the State Library to apply for, 
receive, and expend federal grants for library services.]

Text:
54-24-03. Powers and duties of state librarian. 
The state librarian shall:
1. Make rules for the operation of the state library.
2. Provide and care for all books and library materials in all collections of the state library 
and work to focus the collections.
3. Employ qualified library personnel to care for all library procedures.
4. Make library materials available to libraries throughout the state, to individuals 
connected with departments of state, and to citizens of North Dakota who do not have 
adequate library facilities, under the rules of the state library.
5. Work to improve library services to citizens by providing assistance to librarians and 
library trustees and staff and by encouraging the extension of networking and regional 
and statewide cooperation among libraries.
6. Coordinate the efforts of librarianship throughout the state, advising and assisting the 
extension of qualified public libraries into centers of county or multicounty libraries.
7. Compile statistics on all North Dakota public libraries and their services and their 
larger counterparts of county and multicounty libraries, regional library cooperatives 
including multitype library authorities, and of the work done at the state library, and 
make a full biennial report to the superintendent of public instruction and the governor. 
The state librarian may not require a private sector library to submit information relating 
to the provisions of this subsection.
8. Collect, maintain, and make available informational materials that supplement and 
support the needs of all libraries in the state, either by direct loan or by consultation, and 
that form a reference source for the officers of the state in performing their duties.
9. Assist libraries in developing local standards and guidelines defining the basic level of 
service that they will provide.
10. Conduct, or have conducted, research into the conditions of library service in the state 
and produce written plans for the development and betterment of that service.
11. Promote and assist in the development of regional library cooperatives, including 
multitype library authorities.
12. Establish levels of certification for libraries of the state that meet the standards 
recommended by the American library association and the North Dakota library 
association.
13. Promote and assist libraries in this state in developing and maintaining a 
computerized, comprehensive, bibliographic statewide data base for storing bibliographic 
records of libraries which allows residents unmediated, seamless, direct access to library 
catalogs with a common interface and a common set of commands and the ability to 
search the library collections of the entire state at one time or only the collections of the 
local library, regional libraries, or select group of libraries.
14. Coordinate interlibrary loan activities throughout this state.
15. Arrange for continuing education and training programs for library personnel.
16. Provide technical assistance and counsel to library personnel.
17. Distribute grants to libraries within the limits of legislative appropriations for the 
purpose of developing or improving library services or programs.
18. Provide staff services to the North Dakota library coordinating council.

54-24-03.1. Acceptance of federal aid. 
The state library is hereby authorized to accept and to expend in accordance with the 
terms thereof any grant of federal funds which may become available to the state for 
library purposes. For the purpose of qualifying to receive such grants, the state library is 
authorized to make such applications and reports as may be required by the federal 
government as a condition thereto.


Northern Mariana Islands

Region:	West

Agency:	Commonwealth Library Council

Citation(s):	P.L. 7-018, sect. 5(g)

Heading(s):	Library Act of 1990; Powers and duties of Council -- Responsibility for 	
		certain functions

Link(s):	http://www.cnmilaw.org/pdf/public_laws/07/pl07-18.pdf

Print:		Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth code. 2004 rev. Charlottesville, 	
		VA : LexisNexis, 2004.

Summary:
Directs the Council to provide library services to all including the blind and/or physically 
handicapped.

Text:
Provide for library and information services to all persons throughout the Commonwealth 
including those who are blind and/or physically handicapped.


Ohio

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	State Library Board, State Library

Citation(s):	ORC 3375.01

Heading(s):	State Library Board

Link(s):	http://codes.ohio.gov/orc/3375.01

Print:		Baldwin’s Ohio revised code annotated. [Cleveland] : Banks-Baldwin 	
		Law Pub. Co. ; [St. Paul, Minn.] : West Group, c1994-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Ohio Revised Code.  Section 3375.01 directs 
the State Library Board (the Board) to have a statewide program of development and 
coordination of library services; authorizes the Board to accept, expend, etc. funds from 
the federal government or other sources; allows the Board to contract with other 
institutions to provide library services.]

Text:
3375.01 State library board.
A state library board is hereby created to be composed of five members to be appointed 
by the state board of education. One member shall be appointed each year for a term of 
five years. No one is eligible to membership on the state library board who is or has been 
for a year previous to appointment a member of the state board of education. A member 
of the state library board shall not during the member’s term of office be a member of the 
board of library trustees for any library in any subdivision in the state. Before entering on 
official duties, each member shall subscribe to the official oath of office. All vacancies on 
the state library board shall be filled by the state board of education by appointment for 
the unexpired term. The members shall receive no compensation, but shall be paid their 
actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties or in the 
conduct of authorized board business, within or without the state.
At its regular meeting next prior to the beginning of each fiscal biennium the state library 
board shall elect a president and vice-president each of whom shall serve for two years or 
until a successor is elected and qualified.
The state library board is responsible for the state library of Ohio and a statewide 
program of development and coordination of library services, and its powers include the 
following:
(A) Maintain the state library, holding custody of books, periodicals, pamphlets, films, 
recordings, papers, and other materials and equipment. The board may purchase or 
procure from an insurance company licensed to do business in this state policies of 
insurance insuring the members of the board and the officers, employees, and agents of 
the state library against liability on account of damage or injury to persons or property 
resulting from any act or omission of the board members, officers, employees, and agents 
of the state library in their official capacity.
(B) Accept, receive, administer, and expend, in accordance with the terms thereof, any 
moneys, materials, or other aid granted, appropriated, or made available to it for library 
purposes, by the United States, or any of its agencies, or by any other source, public or 
private;
(C) Administer such funds as the general assembly may make available to it for the 
improvement of public library services, interlibrary cooperation, or for other library 
purposes;
(D) Contract with other agencies, organizations, libraries, library schools, boards of 
education, universities, public and private, within or without the state, for library 
services, facilities, research, or any allied or related purpose;
(E) In accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, approve, disapprove, or 
modify resolutions for establishment of county district libraries, and approve, disapprove, 
or modify resolutions to determine the boundaries of such districts, along county lines or 
otherwise, and approve, disapprove, or modify resolutions to redefine boundaries, along 
county lines or otherwise, where questions subsequently arise as a result of school district 
consolidations;
(F) Upon consolidation of two or more school districts and in accordance with Chapter 
119. of the Revised Code, to define and adjust the boundaries of the new public library 
district resulting from such consolidation and to resolve any disputes or questions 
pertaining to the boundaries, organization, and operation of the new library district;
(G) Upon application of one or more boards of library trustees and in accordance with 
Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, to amend, define, and adjust the boundaries of the 
library districts making such application and the boundaries of adjacent library districts. 
A library district boundary change made by the state library board pursuant to this 
division shall take effect sixty days after the day on which two certified copies of the 
boundary change order in final form are filed on the same date with the secretary of state 
and with the director of the legislative service commission unless a referendum petition is 
filed pursuant to section 3375.03 of the Revised Code.
(H) Certify its actions relating to boundaries authorized in this section, to boards of 
election, taxing authorities, the boards of trustees of libraries affected and other 
appropriate bodies;
(I) Encourage and assist the efforts of libraries and local governments to develop mutual 
and cooperative solutions to library service problems;
(J) Designate by rule five depository libraries so as to provide statewide, geographically 
distributed accessibility to agency deposits of texts or other materials that have been 
incorporated by reference into rules;
(K) Recommend to the governor and to the general assembly such changes in the law as 
will strengthen and improve library services and operations;
(L) In accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, adopt such rules as are 
necessary for the carrying out of any function imposed on it by law, and provide such 
rules as are necessary for its government and the government of its employees. The board 
may delegate to the state librarian the management and administration of any function 
imposed on it by law.


Oklahoma

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Dept. of Rehabilitation Services

Citation(s):	612:15-1-3 (Oklahoma Administrative Code)
		7-8 (Oklahoma Statutes)

Heading(s):	Library functions and legal basis
		Special library services to blind and physically handicapped 		
		persons

Link(s):	http://www.oar.state.ok.us/viewhtml/612_15-1-3.htm
		http://webserver1.lsb.state.ok.us/OK_Statutes/CompleteTitles/os7.rtf

Print:		Oklahoma administrative code. 2006 ed. [Oklahoma City] : Oklahoma 	
		Secretary of State, c2006-
		Oklahoma statutes annotated. Permanent ed. St. Paul, Minn. : 		
		Thomson/West, c1936-

Summary:
612:15-1-3 of the Oklahoma Administrative Code designates the Oklahoma Library for 
the Blind and Physically Handicapped (OLBPH) as the regional library of the Library of 
Congress National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped.  Provides 
the legislative history of the national legislation and authorizes the OLBPH to produce 
reading materials in braille and other formats.  Title 7, section 8 of the Oklahoma Statutes 
authorizes the Section of Services to the Blind (Visual Services) of the Commission for 
Rehabilitation Services to provide special library services to the blind and physically 
handicapped, directs that the services be provided in accordance with national standards, 
and that state funding be made available to earn the maximum federal funds for such 
services.

Text:
612:15-1-3. Library functions and legal basis  	
(a) The Oklahoma Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped (OLBPH), operated 
by the Department of Rehabilitation Services, is the regional library for Oklahoma and a 
part of the national network of libraries of the Library of Congress National Library 
Service (NLS) for the Blind and Physically Handicapped.
(b) On March 3, 1931, the Pratt-Smoot bill authorized the Library of Congress to arrange 
with other libraries to serve as local or regional centers to circulate books to blind or 
visually-impaired users. By the end of fiscal 1966, Congress passed Public Law 89-522 
extending the service to library users who could not read standard print because of 
physical disability, which can include certain reading disabilities.
(c) Upon request, the Oklahoma Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped 
produces reading materials in alternative formats on a limited basis. Available alternative 
formats include cassette recording and braille. Production is done on a fee-for-service 
basis. Services provided by OLBPH as part of the National Library Service will be given 
priority over requests for production of reading materials in alternative formats.


§7-8.
(a) See Title 74, State Officers and Employees, Section 285(23) note.
(b) The state plan for library services shall be amended in accordance with the Federal 
Library Services and Construction Act and applicable regulations to reflect the authority 
and duty of the Section of Services to the Blind (Visual Services) of the Commission for 
Rehabilitation Services to provide special library services, including braille and recorded 
books, to blind and visually handicapped persons as provided by state law.
(c) Special library services for blind and physically handicapped adults, children, and 
students shall be provided by the Section of Services to the Blind (Visual Services) of the 
Commission for Rehabilitation Services in accordance with the Federal Library Services 
and Construction Act, as amended, and applicable federal regulations relating thereto; 
and consistent with applicable statutes and regulations. The library standards of the 
National Accreditation Council for Agencies Serving the Blind and Visually 
Handicapped shall be observed and followed in providing such special library services.  
The Commission for Rehabilitation Services shall, within the availability of state funds, 
annually make available for such special library services sufficient funds to earn the 
maximum available federal funds under the Federal Library Services and Construction 
Act and appropriations made in pursuance thereof by Congress.
(d) All federal requirements for interlibrary cooperation and consultation shall be 
observed and entitlement of the Department of Libraries to receive federal funds for 
library services or construction shall not be impaired by any state law prescribing the 
duties, responsibilities and functions of the Section of Services to the Blind (Visual 
Services).


Oregon

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library

Citation(s):	357.005

Heading(s):	State Library duties and powers; free book loans

Link(s):	http://www.leg.state.or.us/ors/357.html

Print:		West’s Oregon revised statutes annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 		
		Thomson/West, c2003-

Summary:
Section 357.005 (g) directs the State Library to provide library services to those who are 
blind or print-disabled in cooperation with the Library of Congress.

Text:
357.005 State Library duties and powers; free book loans.
(1) The State Library shall be the agency of government responsible for executing the 
functions as set forth in ORS 357.001 and 357.003.
(2) To carry out its duties under subsection (1) of this section, the State Library may:
(a) Promote adequate library services for all of the people of this state.
(b) Provide advice and assistance to libraries, to library boards, to units of local 
government empowered to establish libraries and to departments and agencies of state 
government in matters concerning the establishment, support, operation, improvement 
and coordination of libraries and library services, and the cooperation between libraries.
(c) Maintain and develop appropriate collections of library materials to supplement the 
collections and services of other libraries in the state and to meet the reference and 
research needs of the Legislative Assembly and of the state government by providing 
library services thereto.
(d) With the advice of the libraries of the state, provide a network whereby the library 
resources in this state are made available to all of the people of this state under reasonable 
conditions and subject to appropriate compensation to libraries providing library services 
to persons beyond their primary clientele.
(e) Provide for state participation in regional, national or international library networks 
and systems designed to increase the quality of library services for the people of this 
state.
(f) Provide for the people of this state specialized library services not generally available 
in other libraries in the state.

(g) Provide library services to people who are blind or print-disabled in cooperation with 
the United States Library of Congress.
(h) Provide for in-service and continuing education programs for library personnel in the 
state.
(i) Expend such federal, state or private funds as may be available to the state to 
demonstrate, develop and support library services in accordance with long-range plans 
for statewide development and coordination of library services.
(j) Prescribe the conditions for use of state documents in depository libraries, and provide 
for permanent public access to state government publications.
(k) Report statistical data on public, school and other libraries of this state useful in the 
conduct of the work of the State Library and in the development of effective library 
services throughout the state.
(L) Carry out other activities authorized by law for the development of library services 
for the people of this state.
(3) State Library books shall be loaned free of charge to the people of Oregon through 
existing libraries.


Pennsylvania

Region:	North

Agency:	Pennsylvania Dept. of Education, Office of Commonwealth 		
		Libraries (via facilities in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia)

Citation(s):	24 P.S. § 4201 (Chap. 16, Article II)

Heading(s):	State library and state librarian; powers and duties   

Link(s):	http://www.legis.state.pa.us/ 
		(Click on "Unofficial Purdon's Pennsylvania statutes from West)

Print:		Purdon's Pennsylvania statutes and consolidated statutes. Compact ed. 	
		[Eagen, MN] : Thomson/West, [2003-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Pennsylvania Statutes.  Section 4201 directs 
the State Library to coordinate a statewide system of libraries and to receive and 
administer federal funds for library services.]

Text:
The Department of Education shall have the power, and its duty shall be--
(1) To appoint a suitably qualified State Librarian as the person to exercise the powers 
and discharge the duties pursuant to this section.
(2) To control, direct, supervise and manage the State Library as an agency providing 
information and fostering continuing education in the state education program.
(3) To maintain, as part of the State Library, a law library.
(4) To receive copies of all publications of all agencies of the Commonwealth in order to 
maintain a definitive, organized collection of all such publications by the State Library 
and to provide for the distribution of such publications to other libraries. The State 
Librarian shall also designate selected academic or public libraries within the 
Commonwealth to be State government document depository libraries under criteria and 
regulations approved by the Advisory Council on Library Development and, in the case 
of documents published pursuant to the act of July 31, 1968 (Act No. 240), known as the 
"Commonwealth Documents Law," [FN1] by the Joint Committee on Documents.
(5) To coordinate a State-wide system of local libraries and to counsel local libraries on 
minimum standards for number and quality of library staff, resources of books and other 
materials, location of new local libraries, hours and physical facilities. Nothing contained 
herein shall restrict or limit public libraries in the selection of resources of books and 
other material not determined from counseling.
(6) To give advice and counsel to all local libraries, district library centers and State-wide 
library resource centers and to all municipalities and groups, which may propose to 
establish libraries, in the selection of books, cataloguing [FN2] and other details of 
library management and as to the best means of establishing and administering such 
libraries.
(7) To inspect local libraries, district library centers and State-wide library resource 
centers and require reports in such manner as may be deemed proper.
(8) To purchase and maintain a general collection of books, periodicals, newspapers, 
maps, slides, films and other library materials for the use of State and local governments, 
libraries and the public generally.
(9) To make available all library materials of the State Library for circulation to local 
libraries and to the public generally under rules and regulations promulgated by the State 
Librarian, except that the State Librarian may restrict the circulation of library materials 
which, because they are rare or are used intensively in the State Library for reference or 
other purposes, should be retained in the State Library at all times.
(10) To promote and demonstrate library service throughout the State.
(11) To collect, preserve and publish library statistics.
(12) To study library problems throughout the State and make the resultant findings 
available to all libraries within the State applying therefore.
(13) To certify library personnel in the following categories: Library Assistants having 
two years of college education in addition to in-service library training; Provisional 
Librarians having a college degree and introductory education in library service; and 
Professional Librarians having a college degree in addition to one or more academic 
years of professional library education. The State Librarian may conduct examinations 
and promulgate rules and regulations providing for the certification of persons in the 
above categories based upon actual library experience as equivalent to the above 
minimum educational requirements: Provided, That this act shall not apply to clerks, 
typists, volunteer workers or other personnel, who do not need special library training: 
And provided further, That all library personnel employed at the effective date of this act 
shall be certified for the positions they then hold.
(14) To conduct and arrange for training programs for library personnel.
(15) Generally, to promulgate rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying out the 
powers and duties relating to libraries as are imposed by law: Provided, That such rules 
and regulations shall not, directly or indirectly, prohibit the inclusion of a particular book, 
periodical or material, the works of a particular author or the expression of a particular 
point of view. Such rules and regulations shall not take effect until approved by the 
Advisory Council on Library Development.
(16) Whenever necessary for the purpose of administering the library laws of the 
Commonwealth to act as arbiter in defining the direct service area of any library.
(17) To receive funds allocated to the State for library purposes by the Federal 
government or by private agencies and to administer such funds in library maintenance, 
improvement or extension programs consistent with Federal and State Library objectives.
(18) To promote, and support cooperation among the various types of libraries in 
Pennsylvania for the purpose of increasing the services and resources available through 
libraries, and to provide financial support for the development and maintenance of 
cooperative programs from funds appropriated to the State Library for the purpose of 
supporting interlibrary cooperative programs. It is the intent of this legislation to promote 
cooperation among types of libraries, not to decrease or supplant the existing financial 
support of any single type of library.



Puerto Rico

Region:	South

Agency:	Departamento de Educación de Puerto Rico, Servicios Bibliotecarios y de 	
		Información

Citation(s):	Title 3, chap. 9A, subchapter VI, 145t	

Heading(s):	Academic duties and obligations

Link(s):	http://www.michie.com/puertorico/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm&cp=prcode

Print:		Leyes de Puerto Rico anotadas. San Juan, P.R. : LexisNexis of Puerto 	
		Rico, c1954-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Laws of Puerto Rico.  Paragraph (y) of 
section 145t directs the Secretary of Education to work with the Institute of Puerto Rican 
Culture to ensure access to library services throughout the island.]

Text:
§  145t. Academic duties and obligations.
The Secretary, as academic director of the Puerto Rico Public Education System, shall:  
(a) Adopt a five (5)-year Integral Development Plan for the Puerto Rico Public Education 
System in order to set forth the short and mid term objectives of the Department. An 
institutional working plan, to be revised annually, shall be designed to achieve said 
objectives.
(b) Organize the study programs of the Public Education System pursuant to the pattern 
of grades and levels and taking into consideration the provisions of § 145h of this title.  
(c) Establish a basic curriculum for the Public Education System that is flexible enough 
for the schools to adapt it to their needs. It shall include physical education courses as a 
curriculum requirement.  
(d) Prescribe the corresponding plan of studies for each grade and level of the System.  
(e) Establish a counseling program on criminality, the facts that constitute grounds for 
crime, the penalties they entail, and the regulations that are necessary to implement said 
program. In addition, the program may include the visit of both, high schools students of 
the public education system schools as well as those of private schools authorized by the 
Department of Education to operate as teaching centers, to the different correctional 
institutions of the country. The visits program shall be optional and always in 
coordination with the Secretary of the Department of Correction and Rehabilitation. The 
counseling program shall be part of the formal academic curriculum and shall be an 
indispensable requirement for senior students to obtain their high school diploma.  
(f) Establish a program at elementary, intermediate and high school level on Moral and 
Government Ethics. The Secretary shall adopt the regulations that are necessary to 
implement said program and may receive the cooperation and advice of the Office of 
Government Ethics, the Office of the Comptroller of Puerto Rico, the Secretary of Justice 
of Puerto Rico and of those persons or entities interested in collaborating with the 
implementation of the plan for the teaching of Moral and Government Ethics. This 
program shall be implemented in all schools of the public education system as well as in 
private schools authorized by the Department of Education to operate as educational 
centers. In agreement with subsections b, c, and d of this Section, said program shall be 
part of the formal academic curriculum and shall be an essential requirement for senior 
students to obtain their high school diploma.  
(g) Ensure that students with disabilities receive the services provided by §§ 1351 et seq. 
of Title 18, known as the "Integral Educational Services for Persons with Disabilities 
Act" and its regulations, as well as the applicable federal laws and regulations.  
(h) Establish the performance levels required for promotion to a next grade and level 
within the System.
(i) Establish, according to the general design prescribed in § 145n of this title, the length 
of the school year and day; the minimum annual and daily number of teaching hours; the 
sectional division of the school year; and the periods of academic recess, to allow the 
schools to increase the teaching hours and days according to their needs.  
(j) Adopt the measures needed to ensure the best use of the teaching time.  
(k) Shall establish the corresponding procedure by which students are duly informed of 
the meaning and origin of the name of the school in which they study.  
(l) Approve the books, texts, equipment and materials required for teaching.  
(m) Foster the academic excellence of the teachers and students by establishing special 
awards and incentives.
(n) Organize incentive programs to enhance the professional advancement of the teachers 
and the teaching support personnel. 
(o) Establish regulations for the teaching personnel of the System.  
(p) Establish student regulations pursuant to the provisions of § 144g fo this title.  
(q) Establish objective procedures to evaluate the performance of the students, the 
teachers and the school directors of the System and to compare the performance of the 
schools among themselves.  
(r) Shall adopt rules related to the nature of the non-academic activities that schools may 
sponsor, provided, that among such roles, he/she shall approve those that specifically 
prohibit the sponsoring or development of activities by the schools, their members, or the 
community, that expose the students who are minors to any activity that is harmful to 
their physical or mental health.  
(s) Establish regulations for the composition and operation of the School Council 
pursuant to the provisions of §§ 143u--143y of this title. 
(t) Provide resources to defray the cost of advanced study programs for high school 
students with high academic or vocational potential, as well as for those students at any 
academic level who show outstanding abilities.  
(u) Designate those schools in the System to be regarded as exemplary and experimental 
and create special schools and programs to attend to the specific needs of particular 
groups of students.  
(v) Establish through regulations a temporary administration system for those school[s] 
that have lost their certificate of recognition.  
(w) Develop a two (2)-year plan, assigning the necessary funds, to establish physical 
education courses in all the schools of the System.  
(x) Take steps to obtain resources from the Government of the United States and from 
public or private organizations so as to develop projects to enhance the educational 
endeavor of the Puerto Rico Public Education System.  
(y) Coordinate with the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture and the municipalities of the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, to offer library and mobile library or bibliobus services 
throughout every town on the island and, to that effect, approve the needed rules and 
regulations jointly with the Board of Directors of the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture.  
(z) Provide, to students, as well as to teaching and non-teaching personnel in the System, 
ongoing training regarding the use and management of computers and electronic 
technology, in addition to a brief initial compulsory orientation on the responsible and 
ethical use of computers and their software, whose approval [sic] shall be required as a 
prior condition to the granting of access to the equipment.  
(aa) The Secretary shall redirect the curriculum of all public schools in order to include in 
the course of history of Puerto Rico, the teaching of the history of the same municipality 
where each public school is located.  
(bb) Establish, in coordination with the Office of the Women's Advocate, a teaching 
curriculum that is directed toward promoting gender equality and preventing domestic 
violence. He/she shall also have the duty to implement this curriculum through the 
regular academic offerings, or integrating it into academic programs and other 
educational modalities.  
 


Rhode Island

Region:	North

Agency:	Dept. of Administration, Office of State Library and Information Services

Citation(s):	29.3.1-7

Heading(s):	Duties of Chief Information Officer

Link(s):	http://www.rilin.state.ri.us/Statutes/TITLE29/29-3.1/29-3.1-7.HTM

Print:		West's general laws of Rhode Island annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 		
		Thomson/West, c2006-

Summary:
Subsection 8 (viii) directs the Chief Information Officer to supervise the provision of 
library services to the impaired, blind, reading impaired, and/or physically impaired and 
to do so in cooperation with the Library of Congress National Library Service for the 
Blind and Physically Handicapped.

Text:
§ 29-3.1-7  Duties of chief information officer.
The chief information officer shall be the executive and administrative officer in charge 
of the office of library and information services. The position of chief information officer 
shall be in the unclassified service of the state and he or she shall serve as the chief 
executive officer of the library board. The chief information officer shall also carry out 
the duties required by this chapter and by chapters 5 and 6 of this title. In addition to the 
general supervision of the office of library and information services and the appointment 
of the several officers and employees of the office, it shall be the duty of the chief 
information officer: 
(1) To develop a systematic program of information gathering, processing, and analysis 
addressed to every aspect of public library development and interlibrary cooperation and 
resource sharing in this state, especially as that information relates to current and future 
library and information service needs, so that current needs may be met with reasonable 
promptness and plans formulated to meet future needs as they arise in the most efficient 
and economical manner possible; 
(2) To develop a master plan defining board goals and objectives for public library 
development and interlibrary cooperation and resource sharing in the state. These goals 
and objectives shall be expressed in terms of the library and information services to 
which individuals will have access; 
(3) To communicate with and seek the advice of those concerned with and affected by the 
library board's determinations; 
(4) To develop and implement board policy as it pertains to the goals and objectives 
approved by the library board from time to time; 
(5) To enforce standards and to exercise general supervision over interlibrary cooperation 
and resource sharing in the state; 
(6) To develop annually the program for the use of federal funds that is submitted to the 
United States department of education; 
(7) To supervise the operation of the office of library and information services as defined 
elsewhere in this title and such other additional duties and responsibilities as may be 
assigned by the library board from time to time; and 
(8) To supervise the following functions: 
(i) To distribute state funds for public library development and interlibrary cooperation 
and resource sharing in accordance with law and regulations of the library board; 
(ii) To develop standards and regulations for public library development and interlibrary 
cooperation and resource sharing; 
(iii) To certify that public library standards and services are in accordance with law and 
regulations of the library board; 
(iv) To require the observance of all laws relating to public library services and 
interlibrary cooperation and resource sharing; 
(v) To interpret library law; 
(vi) To give assistance, advice, and counsel to public libraries and to participants in 
interlibrary cooperation and resource sharing activities; 
(vii) To require that information and statistics necessary to do the work of the office of 
library and information services be collected, to publish findings and reports thereon; 
(viii) To provide eligible persons who are impaired, blind, reading impaired and/or 
physically impaired with library services through the talking books plus, in cooperation 
with the library of congress national library service for the blind and physically 
handicapped; 
(ix) To cooperate with the commissioner of elementary and secondary education in 
supporting and encouraging effective school library media services and their integration 
into statewide library networking activities;
(x) To cooperate with the state librarian and the state law librarian in strengthening 
services to library users;
(xi) To cooperate with the commissioner of higher education in supporting and 
encouraging effective library services through the state system of higher education; and
(xii) To coordinate with all other state departments and agencies in the provision of 
library services to state government and to the public. 


South Carolina

Region:	South

Agency:	State Library
		
Citation(s):	60-1-120

Heading(s):	Library services to be rendered to blind and physically handicapped 	
		readers

Link(s):	http://www.scstatehouse.gov/code/t60c001.htm

Print:		Code of laws of South Carolina, 1976, annotated.  St. Paul, Minn. : West 	
		Group, c1977-

Summary:
Authorizes the Library to provide services to blind and physically handicapped readers in 
cooperation with the Library of Congress, including making available braille and other 
media; allows the Library to contract with other libraries to provide such services; directs 
the Library to provide such services in accordance with standards and guidelines of the 
Library of Congress.

Text:
SECTION 60-1-120. Library services to be rendered to blind and physically handicapped 
readers. 
The South Carolina State Library shall provide library service to the blind and physically 
handicapped readers in cooperation with the United States Library of Congress. The State 
Library shall provide books and other reading matter in recorded form, in braille, in large 
type, or any other medium of reading used by the blind and physically handicapped. To 
this end, the State Library is authorized to contract with the appropriate federal agency or 
any library for the blind and physically handicapped. Services must be rendered in 
accordance with applicable federal regulations and consistent with the current standards 
and guidelines for service for the Library of Congress National Library Service for the 
Blind and Physically Handicapped. 
 


South Dakota

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library Office

Citation(s):	14-1-50

Heading(s):	Services for visually and physically handicapped

Link(s):	http://legis.state.sd.us/statutes/DisplayStatute.aspx?Type=Statute&Statute=14-1-50

Print:		South Dakota codified laws. [Saint Paul, Minn.] : Thomson/West, <c2004-

Summary:
Section 14-1-50 directs the State Library Office to provide services for the visually and 
physically handicapped.

Text:
14-1-50.   Services for visually and physically handicapped.
The State Library Office shall provide for library services to the visually and physically 
handicapped.

 


Tennessee

Region:	South

Agency:	Secretary of State, Division of Public Libraries and Archives

Citation(s):	10-1-103
		10-1-110

Heading(s):	Components of the state library system
		Physically handicapped. Blind.

Link(s):	http://www.michie.com/tennessee/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm&cp=tncode

Print:		Tennessee code annotated.  [Official ed.].  Charlottesville, Va. : Lexis Law 
		Pub., [1955-
 
Summary:
Section 10-1-103 names the regional library for the blind and physically handicapped as 
part of the state library system.  Section 10-1-110 authorizes cooperation between the 
Secretary of State and the Library of Congress for providing library materials and 
services for blind and physically handicapped readers; calls for eligibility standards for 
services, production and distribution of materials or contracting for same, cooperation in 
providing special equipment, and establishment of local or regional centers for loaning 
materials to eligible readers.

Text:
10-1-103. Components of state library system.
The state library system shall consist of the existing state library, archives, regional 
library for the blind and physically handicapped and library extension properties and 
services, and such other properties and services as may from time to time be assigned to 
the division of public libraries and archives, excluding the law library of the state, which 
functions under the direction of the supreme court.

10-1-110.  The secretary of state is authorized to:
(1)  Cooperate with the division for the blind and physically handicapped in the library of 
congress in planning and conducting a program of bringing free reading materials and 
related services and other library services to blind and physically handicapped residents 
of the state; 
(2)  Establish and implement eligibility and certification standards and rules and 
regulations for these services;
(3)  Produce and distribute, and contract with competent organizations and agencies for 
the production and distribution of reading materials, and related library services, in the 
conduct of this program;
(4)  Cooperate in making sound reproduction equipment and other reading equipment 
available to the blind and physically handicapped persons; and
(5)  Establish and maintain local or regional centers as the library of congress may 
designate for the loan of reading materials, reproducers and other library materials to 
eligible readers in the state; provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to 
interfere with or supersede the rules and regulations of the library of congress in the loan 
of library materials and reading equipment for blind and physically handicapped persons.


Texas

Region:	South

Agency:	Texas State Library and Archives Commission
	
Citation(s):	Sec. 91.081-91.084 (HR Code, Title 5, Sec. 91, subchapter E)
 
Heading(s):	Central media depository

Link(s):	http://www.statutes.legis.state.tx.us/SOTWDocs/HR/htm/HR.91.htm	

Print:		Human resources code. [St. Paul, Minn.] : West Group, c1990-

Summary:
Establishes a central depository for braille, other media, and equipment to facilitate 
cooperation among State agencies, volunteer organizations, and the Library of Congress; 
places the depository under the supervision of the Texas State Library and Archives 
Commission; allows the depository to provide repairs for special equipment used in 
services for eligible patrons; allocates funds for the depository.

Text:
SUBCHAPTER E. CENTRAL MEDIA DEPOSITORY

Sec. 91.081.  PURPOSE.
(a) The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a comprehensive central state depository 
for braille, large print, slow speed records and machines, tape recordings and tape 
players, and related forms of media that will enable the Texas State Library, the Texas 
Education Agency, the Texas Commission for the Blind, volunteer organizations 
involved in the production of braille or recorded materials for the blind, the Library of 
Congress, and related types of organizations to work together more closely and 
effectively.
(b) It is the intent of this subchapter to allow various agencies and organizations 
interested in or responsible for such services to work together cooperatively in one 
facility without requiring one central management.

Sec. 91.082.  ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRAL MEDIA DEPOSITORY.
(a) The Texas State Library and Archives Commission shall generally supervise the 
establishment and operation of a central media depository in Austin to house materials 
and devices required by blind and visually handicapped individuals or by other 
individuals who are unable to use ordinary printed materials.
(b) With the approval of the library and archives commission, the agencies and 
organizations maintaining and operating the central media depository shall develop and 
periodically evaluate and modify specific arrangements for administrative support, 
sharing of staff and equipment, and related matters involved in the operation of the 
program.

Sec. 91.083.  ANCILLARY SERVICES. 
The library and archives commission shall allow the central media depository to be used 
for the repair of special media and equipment required by individuals who are unable to 
use ordinary print and for research and demonstration, training, and the production of 
materials in special media by volunteer organizations.

Sec. 91.084.  FUNDING.
The cost of establishing and operating the central media depository shall be paid with:
(1) funds appropriated by the legislature for that purpose;
(2) gifts, grants, bequests, and donations received by cooperating agencies for the 
establishment and support of the depository;
(3) reasonable fees customarily charged for services by the agencies and organizations 
using or occupying the facility; and
(4) funds budgeted by the cooperating agencies and organizations for that purpose 
pursuant to interagency contracts and agreements.


Utah

Region:	West

Agency:	Dept. of Community and Culture, State Library Board

Citation(s):	9-7-205

Heading(s):	Duties of Board and director

Link(s):
http://www.livepublish.le.state.ut.us/lpBin22/lpext.dll/InfobaseUtahCode/title00965.htm/
chapter01143.htm/section01149.htm?fn=document-frame.htm&f=templates

Print:		Utah code annotated 1953. Charlottesville, VA : LexisNexis, 1953-

Summary:
Part 1 (j) directs the board to establish and maintain special departments in the state 
library to provide services for the blind, visually impaired, persons with disabilities, and 
others where needed and deemed advisable. 

Text:
Duties of board and director. 
(1)  The board shall:
(a)  promote, develop, and organize a state library and make provisions for its housing;
(b)  promote and develop library services throughout the state in cooperation with other 
state or municipal libraries, schools, or other agencies wherever practical;
(c)  promote the establishment of district, regional, or multicounty libraries as conditions 
within particular areas of the state may require;
(d)  supervise the books and materials of the state library and require the keeping of 
careful and complete records of the condition and affairs of the state library;
(e)  establish policies for the administration of the division and for the control, 
distribution, and lending of books and materials to those libraries, institutions, groups, or 
individuals entitled to them under this chapter;
(f)  serve as the agency of the state for the administration of state or federal funds that 
may be appropriated to further library development within the state;
(g)  aid and provide general advisory assistance in the development of statewide school 
library service and encourage contractual and cooperative relations between school and 
public libraries;
(h)  give assistance, advice, and counsel to all tax-supported libraries within the state and 
to all communities or persons proposing to establish them and conduct courses and 
institutes on the approved methods of operation, selection of books, or other activities 
necessary to the proper administration of a library;
(i)  furnish or contract for the furnishing of library or information service to state 
officials, state departments, or any groups that in the opinion of the director warrant the 
furnishing of those services, particularly through the facilities of traveling libraries to 
those parts of the state otherwise inadequately supplied by libraries;
(j)  where sufficient need exists and if the director considers it advisable, establish and 
maintain special departments in the state library to provide services for the blind, visually 
impaired, persons with disabilities, and professional, occupational, and other groups;
(k)  administer a depository library program by collecting state publications, and 
providing a bibliographic information system;
(l)  require the collection of information and statistics necessary to the work of the state 
library and the distribution of findings and reports;
(m)  make any report concerning the activities of the state library to the governor as the 
governor may require; and
(n)  develop standards for public libraries.
(2) (a)  By September 30 of each year, the board shall prepare and submit a request to the 
governor and the Legislature for prioritized capital facilities grants to be awarded to 
eligible libraries under this chapter.
(b)  The board shall prepare a list of the requested capital facilities grants in a prioritized 
order and include a written explanation of:
(i)  the total grant amount requested in the list; and
(ii)  the basis of its prioritization of requested grants on the list.
(c)  The board shall accept applications for capital facilities grants through June 1 of each 
year, prior to compiling and submitting its yearly request to the governor and Legislature 
under Subsection (2)(a).
(3) (a)  For a grant of at least $25,000, the division shall make quarterly disbursements to 
the grant recipient, contingent upon the division receiving a quarterly progress report 
from the recipient.
(b)  The division shall:
(i)  provide each grant recipient with a progress report form for the reporting purposes of 
Subsection (3)(a); and
(ii)  include reporting requirement instructions with the form.
(4)  The director shall, under the policy direction of the board, carry out the 
responsibilities under Subsection (1). 


Vermont

Region:	North

Agency:	Agency of Administration, Dept. of Libraries	

Citation(s):	Title 22, Chap. 13, Sec. 605

Heading(s):	Duties and functions of the Department of Libraries

Link(s):
http://www.leg.state.vt.us/statutes/fullsection.cfm?Title=22&Chapter=013&Section=00605

Print:		West's Vermont statutes annotated. [St. Paul, Minn.] : Thomson/West, 	
		c2007-

Summary:
Subsection 7 directs the Dept. of Libraries to provide, administer, and maintain reading 
materials for the blind and physically handicapped.

Text:
§ 605. Duties and functions of the department of libraries
The duties and functions of the department of libraries shall be to provide, administer and 
maintain:
(1) A law library to serve the supreme court, the attorney general, other members of the 
judiciary, the legal profession, members of the legislature, officials of state government 
and the general public.
(2) A collection of state documents and of documents relating to other states, and local 
and federal governments. It shall arrange for and designate depositories of state 
documents which designation is to include Bailey library at the university of Vermont. 
The department may acquire reports and documents published by federal agencies and by 
other states and countries, and may arrange for the exchange of official reports and 
publications with federal agencies, and with governmental agencies in other states and 
countries.
(3) An information and reference service to state government, including a comprehensive 
collection of current information relating to matters of public policy and topics pertinent 
to state government.
(4) A general library collection of a sufficient size and scope to reinforce and supplement 
the resources of local and regional libraries. All materials of the department of libraries 
shall be available for free circulation to all citizens, institutions and organizations under 
regulations of the state librarian except that the state librarian may restrict rare or 
reference-type materials to one location. The department shall arrange, classify and 
catalog all materials in its custody and provide for their safekeeping, and shall rebind 
books as needed. The department shall provide service to other libraries in the state, 
schools and individuals, and may provide service by mail or book wagon or otherwise.
(5) A service of advice and consultation to all libraries in the state, in order to assist them 
in realizing their potential. This service shall be provided at a regional level as well as at 
the state level. The department may provide centralized cataloging and other related 
technical services to libraries in the state to the extent feasible.
(6) All libraries in state correctional institutions and all state institutions for the treatment 
of the mentally ill and mentally handicapped.
(7) Reading materials for the blind and physically handicapped.



Virgin Islands

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. of Planning and Natural Resources, Office of Libraries and Archives

Citation(s):	3-2-28b (c)(3) 

Heading(s):	Powers and duties of the Territorial Librarian

Link(s):	http://www.michie.com/virginislands/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm&cp=

Print:		Virgin Islands code annotated.  Charlottesville, Va. : LexisNexis, [1957-

Summary:
Directs the Territorial Librarian to establish, improve, and supervise library services for 
the visually handicapped.

Text:
(c)  The powers and duties of the Territorial Librarian shall be:
(1)  to promote, support, implement and coordinate, as appropriate, library services to the 
public on a territory-wide basis;
(2)  to administer and maintain a public library system serving all residents of the 
Territory;
(3)  to establish, improve and supervise library services for the visually and physically 
handicapped, and institutions supported in whole or in part by funds of the Government 
of the United States Virgin Islands, including orphanages, senior citizens' homes and 
convalescent homes;
(4)  to cooperate with the Archivist of the Virgin Islands and, to the extent appropriate, 
ensure and encourage the collection, preservation, indexing and access to the publications 
of the Government of the United States Virgin Islands;
(5)  to fulfill the responsibilities related to the maintenance of “depository libraries” 
established pursuant to Title 3, chapter 33, VIC;
(6)  to improve library services for the legislative, executive and judicial branches of the 
Government of the United States Virgin Islands through consultation, coordination or 
administration;
(7)  to provide, to the extent feasible, those specialized library services not generally 
appropriate, economical or available in other libraries of the United States Virgin Islands;
(8)  with the cooperation of the Commissioner of Property and Procurement, and in 
accordance with the provisions of Title 31, chapter 23, VIC, to negotiate and enter into 
agreements or contracts for goods, services, library materials, research, instruction or for 
other purposes related to the provision of library services to the public;
(9)  to seek and accept, on behalf of the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, 
gifts, grants, bequests, devises, contributions or donations from any public or private 
source and to administer and dispose of monies in accordance with the purposes of this 
chapter;
(10)  to issue rules and regulations governing public library services, including public 
library hours, lending policies, use of the public libraries and the establishment of a 
system of fines for borrowers who violate lending policies;
(11)  to publish an annual report which includes a description of available public library 
services and materials, outlines of territorial library needs to the public, discussion of 
long and short range plans for public library development, a list of the minimum national 
library standards and estimates of the amount of funds necessary to meet those standards;
(12)  notwithstanding the provisions of Title 31, chapter 23, VIC, to discard or dispose of, 
by sale or exchange, library materials or other public library property which are obsolete, 
duplicative or have ceased to be useful. Sale proceeds of such surplus property shall be 
paid to the Government of the United States Virgin Islands and credited to the Library 
and Archives Revolving Fund as established pursuant to Title 33, chapter 111, section 
3059, VIC;
(13)  to present to the Governor for submission to the Legislature an itemized budget 
request for salaries, facilities, upkeep, equipment, supplies, services, other operating 
expenses and contributions to the Libraries and Archives Revolving Fund necessary to 
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of this chapter;
(14)  to present to the Governor, for submission to the Legislature, requests for capital 
improvements and acquisitions to provide the necessary physical plants for maintaining 
and expanding public library services in the Territory; and
(15)  to perform such other duties pertaining to public library services as may be 
necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of the territorial library agency or the Office.
 


Virginia

Region:	South

Agency:	Dept. for the Blind and Vision Impaired

Citation(s):	§ 51.5-74
		§ 51.5-77

Heading(s):	Operation of library service for persons with disabilities; agreement with 	
		The Library of Virginia
		Cooperation with federal agencies					

Link(s):	http://leg1.state.va.us/cgi-bin/legp504.exe?000+cod+51.5-74
		http://leg1.state.va.us/cgi-bin/legp504.exe?000+cod+51.5-77

Print:		Code of Virginia, 1950 … Annotated.  Charlottesville, Va. : LexisNexis, 	
		1949-

Summary:
51.5-74 directs the Dept. for the Blind and Vision Impaired (the Dept.) to provide library 
services for persons who are blind, vision impaired, or otherwise disabled as eligible; 
allows for a variety of special materials to be provided; authorizes cooperation with the 
Library of Virginia to receive federal funding.  51.5-77 directs the Dept. to cooperate 
with federal agencies in order to receive aid for providing library services.

Text:
§ 51.5-74. Operation of library service for persons with disabilities; agreement with The 
Library of Virginia. 
The Department is hereby authorized to maintain and operate a library service for persons 
who are blind, vision impaired, and disabled who are eligible for such services pursuant 
to the Pratt-Smoot Act (P.L. 89-522). Special materials that are provided through this 
program may include but are not limited to sound reproduction machines such as tape 
players and record players; talking book records; magnetic tapes; large print books; 
Braille books; book holders; page turners; captioned films for the deaf; and special 
electronic devices used as reading aids. The Department may enter into an agreement or 
agreements with The Library of Virginia for the purpose of receiving federal funds for 
the operation of this program. 

§ 51.5-77. Cooperation with federal agencies. 
The Department shall cooperate with the federal Department of Education and any other 
agencies of the United States, in any reasonable manner that may be necessary for this 
Commonwealth to qualify for and to receive grants or aid from such agencies for social 
services, rehabilitation, personal adjustment, library and education services to the blind or 
vision impaired in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, including the making of 
such reports in such form and containing such information as such agencies of the United 
States may require, and to comply with such provisions as such agencies of the United 
States may require to assure the correctness and verification of such reports. 



Washington

Region:	West

Agency:	Secretary of State, State Library

Citation(s):	27.04.045

Heading(s):	Duties of State Librarian -- Lending fees for interlibrary services

Link(s):	http://apps.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=27.04&full=true

Print:		Annotated revised code of Washington. Charlottesville, VA : LexisNexis, 	
		1994-

Summary:
Section 27.04.045 (14) directs the State Librarian to provide library and information 
services to those who are blind and/or physically handicapped.

Text:
27.04.045
Duties of state librarian — Lending fees for interlibrary services.
The state librarian shall be responsible and accountable for the following functions:
(1) Establishing content-related standards for common formats and agency indexes for 
state agency-produced information. In developing these standards, the state librarian is 
encouraged to seek involvement of, and comments from, public and private entities with 
an interest in such standards;
(2) Managing and administering the state library;
(3) Exerting leadership in information access and the development of library services;
(4) Acquiring library materials, equipment, and supplies by purchase, exchange, gift, or 
otherwise; and, as appropriate, assisting the legislature, other state agencies, and other 
libraries in the cost-effective purchase of information resources;
(5) Employing and terminating personnel in accordance with chapter 41.06 RCW as may 
be necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter;
(6) Entering into agreements with other public or private entities as a means of 
implementing the mission, goals, and objectives of the state library and the entity with 
which it enters such agreements. In agreements for services between the library and other 
state agencies, the library may negotiate an exchange of services in lieu of monetary 
reimbursement for the library's indirect or overhead costs, when such an arrangement 
facilitates the delivery of library services;
(7) Maintaining a library at the state capitol grounds to effectively provide library and 
information services to members of the legislature, state officials, and state employees in 
connection with their official duties;
(8) Serving as the depository for newspapers published in the state of Washington thus 
providing a central location for a valuable historical record for scholarly, personal, and 
commercial reference and circulation;
(9) Promoting and facilitating electronic access to public information and services, 
including providing, or providing for, a service that identifies, describes, and provides 
location information for government information through electronic means, and that 
assists government agencies in making their information more readily available to the 
public;
(10) Collecting and distributing copies of state publications, as defined in RCW 
40.06.010, prepared by any state agency for distribution. The state library shall maintain 
the state publications distribution center, as provided in chapter 40.06 RCW to provide 
copies of materials that are not available in electronic format to state depository libraries;
(11) Providing for the sale of library material in accordance with RCW 27.12.305;
(12) Providing advisory services to state agencies regarding their information needs;
(13) Providing for library and information service to residents and staff of state-supported 
residential institutions;
(14) Providing for library and information services to persons throughout the state who 
are blind and/or physically handicapped;
(15) Assisting individuals and groups such as libraries, library boards, governing bodies, 
and citizens throughout the state toward the establishment and development of library 
services;
(16) Making studies and surveys of library needs in order to provide, expand, enlarge, 
and otherwise improve access to library facilities and services throughout the state;
(17) Serving as an interlibrary loan, information, reference, and referral resource for all 
libraries in the state. The state library may charge lending fees to other libraries that 
charge the state library for similar services. Money paid as fees shall be retained by the 
state library as a recovery of costs; and
(18) Accepting and expending in accordance with the terms thereof grants of federal, 
state, local, or private funds. For the purpose of qualifying to receive such grants, the 
state librarian is authorized to make applications and reports required by the grantor.



West Virginia

Region:	North

Agency:	West Virginia Library Commission

Citation(s):	10-1-14

Heading(s):	[State Library Commission] -- Powers and duties

Link(s):
http://www.legis.state.wv.us/WVCODE/ChapterEntire.cfm?chap=10&art=1&section=14#01

Print:		West's annotated code of West Virginia. [St. Paul, Minn.] : 			
		Thomson/West, c2002-

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the West Virginia Code.  10-1-14 directs the 
West Virginia Library Commission perform any service in behalf of public libraries that 
it considers in the best interest of the state.]

Text:
§10-1-14. Same. -- Powers and duties.
The commission shall give assistance, advice and counsel to all school, state-institutional, 
free and public libraries, and to all communities in the state which may propose to 
establish libraries, as to the best means of establishing and administering them, selecting 
and cataloging books, and other details of library management, and may send any of its 
members to aid in organizing such libraries or assist in the improvement of those already 
established.
It may also receive gifts of money, books, or other property which may be used or held 
for the purpose or purposes given; and may purchase and operate traveling libraries under 
such conditions and rules as the commission deems necessary to protect the interests of 
the state and best increase the efficiency of the service it is expected to render the public.
It may purchase suitable books for traveling libraries and distribute them as needed to 
those persons and places in the state without adequate public library service. It may 
collect books and other suitable library matter and distribute the same among state 
institutions desiring the same.
The commission may issue and offer for sale printed material, such as lists and circulars 
of information, and in the publication thereof may cooperate with other state library 
commissions and libraries, in order to secure the more economical administration of the 
work for which it was formed. It may conduct courses of library instruction and hold 
librarians' institutes in various parts of the state.
The commission shall perform such other service in behalf of public libraries as it may 
consider for the best interests of the state. 


Wisconsin

Region:	Midlands

Agency:	Dept. of Public Instruction, Division for Libraries, Technology and 	
		Community Learning

Citation(s):	43.03(6) (Wisconsin Statutes)

Heading(s):	General duties of the State Superintendent

Link(s):	http://www.legis.state.wi.us/statutes/Stat0043.pdf

Print:		Wisconsin statutes and annotations. Madison, Wis. : Revisor of Statutes 	
		Bureau, [1995-

Summary:
Directs the State Superintendent to contract with a public library in a major city to 
provide library services for the blind and physically handicapped.

Text:
43.04 General duties of the State Superintendent …
(6) Enter into an annual contract with the public library in a 1st class city for the 
provision of library services to physically handicapped persons, including the blind and 
visually handicapped, certified by competent authority as unable to read or use 
conventional printed materials as a result of physical limitations. For the purpose of this 
subsection, "competent authority" means any member of the medical or allied 
professions, and professional persons in the fields of public health, education, library 
service, rehabilitation, social work and public welfare. 


Wyoming

Region:	West

Agency:	State Library (?)

Citation(s):	9-2-1026.6
		
Heading(s):	State librarian; appointment; qualifications; filing of state publications; 	
		deposit of designated documents; exchange of session laws.
		
Link(s):	http://michie.lexisnexis.com/wyoming/lpext.dll?f=templates&fn=main-h.htm

Print:		West's Wyoming statutes annotated. [Eagan, MN] : Thomson West, 	
		<c2007->

Summary:
[The authority for providing library services to the blind and visually handicapped 
citizens does not appear to be explicit in the Wyoming Statutes Annotated.  Subsection g 
of 9-2-1026.6 directs the State Librarian to extend and develop library services 
throughout the state and to supervise expenditures.  The State Library's role is less clear 
in Wyoming than in many other states with similarly broad authority, as the actual 
services for Wyoming citizens are provided by the regional library in Salt Lake City.] 

Text:
§ 9-2-1026.6. State librarian; appointment; qualifications; filing of state publications; 
deposit of designated documents; exchange of session laws.
(a)  A state librarian shall be appointed by the director of the department of 
administration and information and shall serve as the administrator of the state library 
division of the department. The state librarian shall have:
(i)  Completed the required courses in a recognized or accredited library school or shall 
have educational and library administrative experience required by the human resources 
division of the department;
(ii)  Charge and custody of all materials belonging to the state library.
(b)  With the approval of the director, the state librarian may employ within the state 
library division necessary deputies, assistants and employees and shall:
(i)  Develop a budget for the state library and control the expenditures of funds 
appropriated for and received by the library;
(ii)  Accept gifts or grants of any nature for the purpose of carrying on the work of the 
state library division;
(iii)  Report to the director regarding the receipts, disbursements, work and needs of the 
state library division;
(iv)  Expend or disburse gifts and grants as approved in writing by the director;
(v)  Adopt policies and projects to fulfill the purposes of this act regarding the state 
library division.
(c)  For purposes of maintaining a state publications depository system, up to seven (7) 
copies of each publication issued by a state officer, commission, commissioner or board 
of a state institution shall be deposited with the state library for distribution as follows:
(i)  Three (3) copies to the state library permanent file; 
(ii)  Two (2) copies to the university library;
(iii)  One (1) copy to the library of congress;
(iv)  One (1) copy to the council of state governments; and
(v)  The total number of copies and distributions may be modified at the discretion of the 
state librarian.
(d)  All officers and persons who receive any books, maps, charts or other documents 
designed for the use of the state library or the department, shall deposit the same 
immediately on receipt thereof with either the state librarian or the director.
(e)  Repealed by Laws 2005, ch. 210, § 3.
(f)  The state librarian shall guide local library agencies participating in any state plan for 
the expenditure of any federal funds or materials. The state librarian shall assure 
compliance with the policies and methods of administration under the state plan.
(g)  The state librarian is responsible for the extension and development of library 
services throughout the state and shall supervise and superintend the expenditures of 
monies provided for library services and federal funds allocated to the state for these 
purposes.


REGIONAL INDEX

Midlands
	Illinois								28
      Indiana								31
	Iowa								32
	Kansas								35
	Michigan							45
	Minnesota							47
	Missouri							52
	Ohio								81
	Oklahoma							84
	Wisconsin							114


North
	Connecticut							14
	Delaware							15
	Maine								39
	Maryland							41
	Massachusetts							42
	New Hampshire						61
	New Jersey							63
	New York							66
	Pennsylvania							88
	Rhode Island							94
	Vermont							104
	West Virginia							112


South
	Alabama							1
	Arkansas							7
	District of Columbia						17
	Florida								18
	Georgia							21
	Kentucky							37
	Louisiana							38
	Mississippi							50
	North Carolina						76
	Puerto Rico							91
	South Carolina						96
	Tennessee							98
	Texas								100
	Virgin Islands							106
	Virginia							108

West
	Alaska								2
	American Samoa						4
	Arizona							6
	California							9
	Colorado							12
	Guam								23
	Hawaii								24
	Idaho								26
	Montana							54
	Nebraska							56
	Nevada							58
	New Mexico							65
	North Dakota							78
	Northern Mariana Islands					80
	Oregon								86
	South Dakota							97
	Utah								102
	Washington							110
	Wyoming							115
	


AGENCY INDEX

Department for the blind or similar
	Alabama							1
	Florida								18
	Iowa								32
	Oklahoma							84
	Virginia							108

Miscellaneous
	Puerto Rico (Dept. of Ed.)					91

State Library or similar
	Alaska								2
	American Samoa						4
	Arizona							6
	Arkansas							7
	California							9
	Colorado							12
	Connecticut							14
	Delaware							15
	District of Columbia						17
	Georgia							21
	Guam								23
	Hawaii								24
	Idaho								26
	Illinois								28
	Indiana								31
	Kansas								35
	Kentucky							37
	Louisiana							38
	Maine								39
	Maryland							41
	Massachusetts							42
	Michigan							45
	Minnesota							47
	Mississippi							50
	Missouri							52
	Montana							54
	Nebraska							56
	Nevada							58
	New Hampshire						61
	New Jersey							63
	New Mexico							65
	New York							66
	North Carolina						76
	North Dakota							78
	Northern Mariana Islands					80
	Ohio								81
	Oregon								86
	Pennsylvania							88
	Rhode Island							94
	South Carolina						96
	South Dakota							97
	Tennessee							98
	Texas								100
	Utah								102
	Vermont							104
	Virgin Islands							106
	Washington							110
	West Virginia							112
	Wisconsin							114
	Wyoming (?)							115

	


STATE INDEX

Alabama							1
Alabama Institute for Deaf and Blind, Dept. of Adult Blind and Deaf

Alaska								2
Dept. of Education and Early Development, State Library

American Samoa						4
Feleti Barstow Public Library (Territorial Library)

Arizona							6
Legislative Dept., Arizona State Library, Archives and 
Public Records

Arkansas							7
Dept. of Education, Arkansas State Library

California							9
State Dept. of Education, California State Library

Colorado							12
Colorado Dept. of Education, State Library

Connecticut							14
Dept. of Education, State Library Board

Delaware							15
Dept. of State, Division of Libraries

District of Columbia						17
District of Columbia Public Library, Adaptive Services Division

Florida							18
Dept. of Education, Division of Blind Services

Georgia							21
Georgia Public Library Service

Guam								23
Guam Public Library, N.M. Flores Memorial Library

Hawaii							24
Dept. of Education, State Librarian

Idaho								26
Commission for Libraries



Illinois								28
Secretary of State, State Library

Indiana							31
Indiana Library and Historical Dept., State Library

Iowa								32
Commission for the Blind

Kansas							35
State Library

Kentucky							37
Dept. of Libraries and Archives

Louisiana							38
State Library

Maine								39
State Library

Maryland							41
State Dept. of Education, Division of Library 
Development and Services

Massachusetts						42
Board of Library Commissioners

Michigan							45
State Board for Libraries

Minnesota							47
Dept. of Education, Minn. Library for the Blind and Physically 
Handicapped (aka Minn. Braille and Talking Book Library)

Mississippi							50
Mississippi Library Commission

Missouri							52
Secretary of State, State Library

Montana							54
State Library Commission

Nebraska							56
Nebraska Library Commission

Nevada							58
State Library and Archives

New Hampshire						61
State Library

New Jersey							63
State Library

New Mexico							65
Cultural Affairs Dept., Library Division

New York							66
Dept. of Education, State Library and New York Public Library	

North Carolina						76
Dept. of Cultural Resources, State Library

North Dakota							78
State Library

Northern Mariana Islands					80
Commonwealth Library Council

Ohio								81
State Library Board, State Library

Oklahoma							84
Dept. of Rehabilitation Services

Oregon							86
State Library

Pennsylvania							88
Pennsylvania Dept. of Education, Office of Commonwealth Libraries
(via facilities in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia)

Puerto Rico							91
Departamento de Educación de Puerto Rico, Servicios 
Bibliotecarios y de Información

Rhode Island							94
Dept. of Administration, Office of State Library and 
Information Services

South Carolina						96
State Library

South Dakota							97
State Library Office

Tennessee							98
Secretary of State, Division of Public Libraries and Archives

Texas								100
Texas State Library and Archives Commission

Utah								102
Dept. of Community and Culture, State Library Board

Vermont							104
Agency of Administration, Dept. of Libraries

Virgin Islands						106
Dept. of Planning and Natural Resources, Office of 
Libraries and Archives

Virginia							108
Dept. for the Blind and Vision Impaired

Washington							110 
Secretary of State, State Library

West Virginia							112
West Virginia Library Commission

Wisconsin							114
Dept. of Public Instruction, Division for Libraries, Technology and
Community Learning

Wyoming							115
State Library (?)

	


   
4
		
		
   
	
